## Blueprints -- Entrance

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 26 January 1958

By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Entrance.png "Entrance.png")The Base Entrance is the first structure
built at any new PHALANX location. It is the primary -- and sometimes
only -- way for equipment and personnel to enter the base. It consists
of a vehicle ramp and a stairway that allow easy movement between base
and surface. A small, camouflaged gatehouse is built on top for security
and will also hide the entrance from flyovers. Like all our surface
installations, it is coated with radar- and infrared-absorbing paints to
reduce the chance of detection.

### Recommended Doctrine

By its very nature, the Entrance is one of the most vulnerable
facilities in any base. Hostile extraterrestrials will almost certainly
attempt to gain access here. It is one of the focal points for the
defence of a base, and should be placed at a considered distance to the
Command Centre so that on-duty soldiers can respond to an attack with
utmost alacrity without putting the CC at risk.

On its own the Entrance facility has little tactical value. It can be
assumed that any EXTs will merely try to hold the Entrance and choose
more tempting targets to actually assault, since the Entrance usually
contains nothing volatile and it has no areas that are particularly
sensitive to destruction. Having no advanced equipment or components, it
is also quick and cheap to repair. If damaged, other structures can
temporarily take over the Entrance's functions without significantly
impeding base operation.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")