## Blueprints -- Radar

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 18 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Radar.png "Radar.png")Commander, we've had to make extensive changes
to our old Radar facility designs to bring them up to date. The old
report is no longer applicable, so I've decided to replace it with this
one.

Our Radar facility is not a large radar array in itself. It's actually a
control centre for a series of camouflaged dishes placed on high ground
around the base. There are between 8 and 12 dishes set up for each
installation, depending on the available space and the dishes'
individual coverage. Each dish is equipped with several means of
detection rather than simply radar, as radar has trouble maintaining a
lock on alien contacts. Supplemental systems include, but are not
limited to, infrared and laser rangefinding.

The facility is manned round-the-clock in 6-hour shifts, reviewing the
processed data after our computers have gathered all discernible
information from a contact. Human operators are absolutely necessary and
should be present to supervise at all times; what the computers might
dismiss as a radar ghost can turn out to be a stealthed alien harvester
ready to hit a mass of civilians. Instinct and experience count just as
much as software intelligence.

Building more than one Radar installation at a base will not increase
the extent of our radar coverage. A single facility will cover its full
range as effectively as possible, and the only way to increase
performance and range is to upgrade our systems with future technology
or to build further installations outside the base.

Our radar is patched directly into the UN aircraft registry and can
cross-reference the transponder data of any civilian aircraft with its
flight plan and cargo manifest. Non-PHALANX military aircraft are also
required to log their routes into our database, but we can't know for
certain if the various militaries will be very conscientious in
following that directive.

The Radar facility cannot function without a working Power Plant or a
Command Centre to coordinate our radar into our tactical efforts.

### Recommended Doctrine

Since our radar-emitting dishes are not located at the base site, there
is no direct threat of discovery to a base from using active radar.
Considering the number of other military radar sources around, it's
unlikely that alien craft will be able to learn anything from a
dedicated backtrace. At most they'll be able to find the general area of
a base.

However, any UFOs spotted patrolling the area may be trying to zero in
on our installation, and should not be allowed to complete their mission
under any circumstances.

During an attack, the Radar facility will be at high risk. It is our
eyes and ears. Without working radar coverage, we wouldn't be able to
see the UFOs we're supposed to respond to. If any attacking aliens
approach the facility they will almost certainly attempt to damage or
destroy it with explosives. We must not let that happen.

### Addenda

Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 18 March 2084:

We should not consider the Radar facility to be an end-all solution to
UFO detection. Even with supplemental systems our coverage is not fully
reliable, and we should research ways to improve our detection
technology if we're to have any chance of stopping the bastards.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")