# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: D-F Cartridge

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

In order to power our deuterium-fluoride laser weaponry, we need to
design a magazine that can safely store a lot of different hazardous
materials. Ethylene, nitrogen trifluoride, helium and deuterium -- three
of which are toxic compounds -- have to be kept in separate pressurised
compartments, under complete control at all times. If these materials
were allowed to mix, it would be what we engineers call a 'Bad Thing'.

We already have a basic design that should overcome these problems, but
we need lab facilities and funding in order to test it, prototype it and
build it to UN safety spec. It's drudge work, but it has to be done in
order to make our lasers safe to use on the battlefield. I'm not
prepared to risk poisoning our own troops with deuterium gas by cutting
corners. We need proper magazines if we're going to use our new laser
weapons.

Please approve this program as soon as you can, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: D-F Cartridge

Commander, we've finalised the design of the Deuterium-Fluoride
Cartridges and they're now ready for mass production. They'll be
expensive to make and use, but we've done everything we can to keep the
costs down.

The cartridge is essentially a hard plastic shell containing five
separate chambers. These are four pressurised storage reservoirs for
ethylene, nitrogen trifluoride, helium and deuterium, plus a small
battery to power the laser's electronics.

The shell itself is made of the toughest polymer we can produce,
reinforced in vulnerable spots with carbon nanotubes, to prevent mixing
in case the cartridge receives any shocks or impacts. We can't provide
perfect protection against direct hits on the cartridge, but we've done
our best. The chance of combat spillage happening during any engagement
has been reduced to only a fraction of a percent.

Any materials remaining in a used cartridge will be pumped back into
base storage upon the dropship's return. However, once they've been
used, these cartridges have to be disposed of by a chemohazard team, and
we'll have to manufacture replacements. They cannot be reused due to
deuterium contamination.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Laser Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Laser_Pistol "wikilink")
- [Laser Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Laser_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Heavy Laser](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Heavy_Laser "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Light.

2\) Small. (1x2 size)

*Con:*

1\) Expensive.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- D-F Cartridge`
` `[`Electrolaser`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Electrolaser "wikilink")`, with `[`Stun Rod`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Stun_Rod "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")