# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien EW Suite

Commander, we've recovered an interesting set of electronics from one of
our disassembled UFOs. From our preliminary testing, it appears to be an
alien EW (Electronic Warfare) suite, the same thing that has been
responsible for much of the hell wreaked on our aircraft!

This is an extremely important find, Commander. If we can just decipher
how these alien electronics work, our targeting and detection systems
will finally be on an even footing with the enemy. It also means a vast
increase in our aircraft's survivability against UFOs. And if we can
adapt the suite for our own purposes . . . well, anything might be
possible!

Please, Commander, approve this project as soon as you possibly can.

--중령 Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien EW Suite

Commander, I'm happy to report that we've cracked the code. We now have
a list of primary EW (Electronic Warfare) frequencies used by the
aliens, and a good understanding of how this powerful piece of
electronics does what it does.

Of course, before you get too excited, let me stress that we have not
found a magic path through the aliens' defences. Regardless of what we
take away from this research, it's not going to end the war or make UFOs
any less dangerous. This is because of the EW suite's most important
function -- it has an independent onboard intelligence that adapts to
its combat environment.

This intelligence is continually experimenting, trying to keep enemy
systems off-balance, changing its methods and deviating from its
preferred frequencies to try ones that might be more difficult to work
with but could bypass enemy jamming. We even believe that, when patched
into a UFO's main computer, this suite will hook into other onboard
systems to make efficiency-increasing adjustments based on enemy EW
activity. Particularly to the targeting computers.

Besides the intelligent computer at its heart, the suite has projectors
of every kind, capable of saturating virtually any frequency in the
electromagnetic spectrum, even several frequencies at a time. It is also
capable of 'throwing' heat several metres away from the craft, causing
thermal spikes on infrared sensors that can fool missiles and draw them
away from the real target. Lastly the suite comes with a set of decoys
that can emulate practically any sensor signature, deployed as and when
the computer thinks it's necessary.

Unfortunately we've been unable to make the suite work with our current
aircraft electronics. Believe me, we've tried. Human and alien design
are too divergent, and I'm not sure we have enough knowledge to work
with in order to bridge that gap.

Our main success has been in developing a new set of software upgrades
for our ECM and targeting systems. This new software can, to some
extent, predict what the EW suite's going to do and counter it. From now
on we should see a jump in both accuracy and survivability for all our
interceptors and dropships, as well as an increase in effectiveness for
the "Raven" ECM Unit and the Targeting Computer.

Now we just need to find a way to use these alien things ourselves,
Commander. I'll let you know as soon as I have anything.

--중령 Navarre