# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Needler

Commander, it seems we've recovered a new alien weapon, some kind of
fully-automatic rifle that fires masses of paper-thin needles made from
silicon steel. Preliminary testing shows that the needles are virtually
unaffected by ordinary body armour and will pass through most surfaces
without even slowing down. It's a very interesting design and we'd like
to figure out exactly how it's meant to work.

Please authorise this program at your convenience, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Needler

Commander, we've finished analysing the alien needler gun, and I've
prepared a threat assessment and technical overview for you.

As I mentioned in my research proposal, the needler is indeed a type of
rifle, but an unusual one. It ignores the normal concept of firing
powerful slugs. Instead it vomits out hundreds and hundreds of
ultra-fast silicon steel needles which can easily tear apart a target.

The needles are fired by a fast-changing magnetic field inside the
barrel, hooked up to a feed mechanism that injects thousands of needles
a minute into the barrel. This creates a near-constant stream of fire
which lasts for as long as you hold down the trigger and the magazine
holds out. Unlike bullets, these needles have a practically flat
trajectory from muzzle to target. They punch through most armour like it
doesn't exist. They're so low in mass that there's little appreciable
recoil when firing, giving them excellent accuracy, but in field tests
the needles can be easily knocked off course by slight variations in the
environment.

One of the main components that caught my attention is the powerful
electromagnet array. It's laid out as a 'coilgun', many electromagnetic
coils wrapped around the barrel, a method we'd previously thought to be
too energy-inefficient to use on the battlefield. The aliens seem to
have made it viable through clever use of superconductors and alien
engineering. We may be able to adapt this technology to our own EM
weapons research. I'll take a closer look and get back to you when I
have anything concrete.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink")

## Links

- [Needler Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/Needler_Magazine "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high rate of fire.

3\) Large magazines.

*Con:*

1\) Low damage.

2\) 2x2 magazines.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Needler`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Needler`
` Enables production -- Needler Magazine`
` `[`Coilgun`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Coilgun "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")