## Technical Specifications: 12mm AP Rounds

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a pallet of 12mm MMG (Medium Machine Gun) ammunition, AP
(Armour-Piercing) mod, designed to be loaded into the UGV Autocannon
Module. It can contain up to 6,000 rounds.

The 12mm AP round is a caseless, linkless machine gun bullet with a thin
coating of depleted uranium on the tip. The bullet is quite long for its
calibre and focuses all its force behind the tip, giving it fantastic
penetration. It has been proven to defeat any current-generation suit of
body armour.

Wounds caused by 12mm AP rounds tend to be large but clean, since the
bullet doesn't fragment or tumble as much as others of its kind. This
limits its damage potential on lightly-armoured targets.

Each UGV Autocannon Module is loaded standard with a full pallet of
6,000 rounds, unless there are not enough rounds available in base
storage.

### Recommended Doctrine

AP mod rounds were designed to engage heavy body armour and light
infantry vehicles, and that's exactly how we should use them now.
Armoured aliens and enemy robots should be much less of a threat if we
can engage them with a UGV loaded with these rounds. They're also well
capable of dealing with less-armoured targets, making them an excellent
round for infantry support.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[Category:Equipment](Category:Equipment "wikilink") [Category:UGV
Equipment](Category:UGV_Equipment "wikilink")