## Technical Specifications: SHIVA Rotary Cannon

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Now that we have aircraft capable of intercepting the attacking UFOs, we
need to equip them with armaments that can actually shoot down these
alien craft. We have evaluated every available weapon on Earth as part
of the Excalibur Program, and we have selected the very best for the
defence of our planet.

The SHIVA is a four-barreled rotary cannon, firing the 20mm HMG (Heavy
Machine Gun) round. It is an externally-powered gun -- rather than being
dependent upon recoil to actuate the system, it uses an external motor
to produce power. The electric motor which drives the SHIVA is a
high-efficiency 20 horse power beast, achieving a rate of fire up to
6,000 rounds a minute with the accurate, hard-hitting 20mm HMG shells.

Designed and built in Bangladesh, the SHIVA was first prototyped in
2048, failing every one of its trials during that year. The project was
nearly discontinued until, in July 2050, an undercover investigation
revealed a long-running sabotage plot by a rival arms company. A new
prototype was constructed which showed enough promise justify further
development. Eventually all the major bugs were ironed out, at which
point the power of this weapon became apparent.

The SHIVA is very light for an aircraft weapon of its size and
effectiveness, weighing only 250 kilos unloaded, 400 kilos loaded. The
rate of fire exceeds that of any other four-barreled cannon in
existence. Its sophisticated tracking systems can hold a bead on an
enemy for as long as there is a radar, lidar or optical target solution
available. The unlinked ammo feeds are highly reliable and no jam has
ever been recorded throughout the gun's service history.

The SHIVA can fire two varieties of the HMG round; API (Armour-Piercing
Incendiary) or HEI (High-Explosive Incendiary). The former achieves
better penetration while the latter can do more damage if penetration is
achieved. Both these rounds are proven to be capable of penetrating UFO
armour to some degree.

The largest issue with the SHIVA cannon is that it does only limited
damage to a UFO, requiring a fairly long engagement time in order to
bring a target down on its own. This also allows the enemy plenty of
opportunity to escape or peg our craft with return fire. On the other
hand, its large magazine gives it more staying power than most other
weapons, and it is not to be underestimated.

### Recommended Doctrine

Low damage and long engagement times somewhat limit the SHIVA's
usefulness. However, most of these failings can be amended or eliminated
if the gun is used in numbers or as part of a mixed gun-and-missiles
armament. It can provide continuous automatic fire while the pilot
concentrates on delivering his missiles, or it can be part of a gunboat
configuration -- one or more interceptors loaded with as many cannons as
possible, bringing down a UFO by sheer weight of lead.

We currently have too little experience to recommend a most-effective
way to engage alien craft with or without this weapon, but until we
manage to capture some UFO weapon mounts, the SHIVA will remain the best
dogfighting gun Earth has to offer.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [unguided ordnance](Skills/unguided "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")