What is this "armor" here? No Heavy Nano Armor for weak soldiers?
Cruel... Unless they can wear the hover armor and psi armor... Where
would you tag the limits? Only for Heavy Nano Armor, I presume? Then we
would have to change description of Heavy Nano Armor so that no
exoskeleton is suggested (the powered armor would solve the weight
problems --- too cheaply, BTW). And then write it explicitly about heavy
armor in the description (but not about Heavy Nano Armor, perhaps, not
to spoil players...).

I've change the accuracy penalty to apply to all weapons. At the end of
the first paragraph I would add that Power increases the ability to aim
steadily while fighting in close quarters, that is doging, hiding,
jumping over obstacles, etc. (close weapon skill) "Also close combat
conditions require strenght for steady aim when doging, jumping over
obstacles, firing from around corners, etc." I'm not a native speaker,
sorry. :)

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 02:37, 15 July 2006 (CEST)

No, I think all soldiers should be able to wear all armor types
(assuming the soldier is developed, and not a green rookie). It's just
that soldiers who have evolved into a light support role (pistols,
medikits, scanners) can not take much else than their standard equipment
in battle. Power for these soldier still goes up, just not as much as
for soldiers who are used to carrying heavy weapons (heavy in terms of
weight).

--[BTAxis](User:BTAxis "wikilink") 12:53, 15 July 2006 (CEST)

Oh, I see. So all can use every armor, but may become encumbered? Very
good. I propose then that only Heavy Nano Armor is very heavy and even
the second Hover Armor is much lighter (this one through the
servomotors, engines, antigravity or whatever).

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 16:27, 15 July 2006 (CEST)