# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** New Interceptor Design

Commander, let me preface this by saying it's obvious that the aliens
have been severely outperforming us in every way, but nowhere is this
more evident than in the air. We were in a bad position at the start of
the war and despite our efforts there has been little improvement.

However, now that we have an understanding of alien materials and how
they behave in the air, as well as alien engines and fuelling systems, I
think my team and I are ready to tackle the task of creating an entirely
new interceptor exclusive to PHALANX. We believe that by combining alien
techniques with good old human manufacturing we can design something
that will be vastly superior to our current-generation craft while
remaining economically feasible to produce and to fly.

The program will incur considerable expenses in lab time, personnel and
materials, but as always we stand to gain much more than we could
possibly lose. It's a project that could rally a lot of hope for our
cause, Commander. Please let me know as soon as possible when you want
us to start work.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** New Interceptor Design

Commander, I'm extremely proud to present you with the plans for our new
interceptor, the Dragon. As you can see we've taken more than one page
out of the aliens' book and the radical styling truly pays off.

Incorporating new technologies from the ground up, the Dragon consists
of an inner skeleton of alien materials providing strength for the
lighter outer skin of carbon nanotube-reinforced plastics. This allows
it to mount two actual alien engines which give speed and power like
nothing else in our arsenal. The forward-swept wings are a special touch
to allow it more knife-fighting mobility than alien designs.

The three-pronged fuselage is also inspired by the enemy, slicing
through the air with remarkable grace. The upper two prongs can mount
small retractable weapons, the bottom prong contains a medium-sized
weapon compartment, and the central structure was designed to
accommodate the main hardpoint -- the 'mouth', if you will -- for which
the Dragon was named.

The main drawback of the Dragon is that, like UFOs, it requires
antimatter to get into the air. Nothing else will do considering the
weight of the fuselage. Since our supplies of antimatter are so limited
it may be that we can't afford to spend it on anything but our airfleet.
That's why we should be careful about where we deploy the Dragon, and
consider whether or not its deployment is really necessary in any given
situation.

Also, please note that while the Dragon is technically capable of
entering orbit on its own steam, it has no space capabilities and should
not be pushed above the upper atmosphere under any circumstances. Some
things are just too much to ask right now. We're engineers, Commander,
not wizards.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Propulsion`](Research/Alien_Propulsion "wikilink")
` `[`Antimatter`](Research/Antimatter "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[300px](image:inter_dragon.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")