## Technical Specifications: Combat Knife

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The combat knife is a solid, twenty-six centimetre bar of sharp steel
that can be used for a number of everyday purposes. As a weapon, the
combat knife's edge is reinforced with hard ceramics to give it extra
armour-piercing power, and it is balanced for throwing should the need
arise. It also has a bayonet ring for affixing the knife to the barrel
of an old-style battle rifle.

The inclusion of the combat knife in our arsenal was a subject of hot
debate. Mumbai has taught us that even in the most favourable
conditions, a knife is no match for the aliens' weaponry. If a
knife-equipped soldier isn't shot down before he even reaches his
target, he will almost certainly be gutted by one of the wicked alien
blades that slice right through armour. Only in a handful of occasions
have experienced knife-fighters been able to win out against alien
opponents.

Still, the combat knife has saved many a life over the years when
firearms became inoperable or ran out of ammo. It has never been
rendered obsolete by centuries of progressing technology; even the
aliens use bladed weapons. When the chips are down, a knife in hand is
still vastly better than a man's own fists.

If a soldier makes it all the way to melee range, this weapon will serve
him well.

### Recommended Doctrine

In combat, the knife is a weapon of last resort. If all other weapons
are exhausted and the enemy is at the gates, then a good knife can save
the day. However, even in such desperate situations it is risky
business; using a knife on an enemy that hasn't been previously wounded
or weakened is a fast way to end up in the morgue.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [9mm Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/9mm_Pistol "wikilink")
- [Kerrblade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Kerrblade "wikilink")
- [Plasma Blade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Plasma_Blade "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")