*Time units* represent the time required to perform actions during
combat. Every action has a cost, measured in time units, and every
character has a pool of time units to spend performing actions during
each combat round.

Most actions have a fixed cost in time units. For instance, moving an
item out of the backpack always costs 5 time units.<sup>\[Confirmation
required\]</sup> Movement costs are normally fixed, but are increased
for individual soldiers with leg
[wounds](Manual/Singleplayer/Wounds "wikilink").<sup>\[Confirmation
required\]</sup>

The number of time units available for each character to spend during a
turn depends on that character's [speed](Skills/speed "wikilink") and
[encumbrance](Manual/Singleplayer/Encumbrance "wikilink").<sup>\[Confirmation
required\]</sup> At the start of each round, each character's pool of
time units is reset to its maximum. Unused time units from the previous
turn are not carried over. As the turn progresses, every action
performed by the character will deduct the corresponding number of time
units from the character's pool of time units. That pool may never fall
below 0; if the pool doesn't contain enough time units to perform an
action, the character will be unable to perform that action until the
next round.

To assist the player at managing time units, the user interface allows
the player to reserve time units for shooting, [reaction
fire](reaction_fire "wikilink"), and crouching. By reserving time units
for one or more of these actions, the player can deplete the rest of the
time unit pool with confidence that there will sufficient time units
remaining at the end of the turn to execute the action for which time
units were reserved.

The time unit pool is represented by the first bar in the center of the
soldier status window. The number and the blue bar indicate the number
of time units remaining in the pool. The green bar indicates the number
of time units reserved.