## Aircraft Evaluation -- Saracen-class Interceptor

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

It is clear that the Stiletto-class Interceptor, while a terrific
aircraft, does not cover all our needs. We must be ready to defend our
planet and our people anywhere across the globe. The Stiletto's
operational range is too limited and it is not fast enough to engage all
the UFOs we might detect.

Only one aircraft in the world is capable of filling the operational gap
we face; the Argentinian KB-550 Hypersonic Wing, dubbed the "Saracen" in
NATO code. Mixing old and new stealth technology into a single airframe,
the Saracen most resembles the ancient SR-71 "Blackbird" in its shape
and bearing. It is black as the night itself, covered in
radiation-absorbing paint that makes it practically invisible to radar,
lidar and most other forms of active scanning. Its fuselage is composed
almost entirely of carbon nanotubes and sheets of graphite-reinforced
plastic. This makes the craft extremely strong and heat-resistant enough
to cope with the temperatures of cruising at speeds in excess of Mach 4.
The Saracen is the fastest military airplane still flying today.

In terms of its capabilities, the Saracen pushes our interception range
into international territory. Its huge, armoured tanks and amazing
fuel-efficiency allow it to go anywhere up to 10,000 kilometres from its
hangar at hypersonic speeds -- and back again -- with fuel to spare for
combat manoeuvres. Its stealthy design, high speed and tough airframe
allow it to engage UFOs that our Stiletto-class Interceptors may simply
be unable to catch. It has tough armour and can fly home even on one
engine. Thanks to the power of its engines and a set of additional
manoeuvring thrusters in its belly, it can take off almost vertically;
this is definitely within the restrictions of our hangar facilities.

Its electronics suite is similarly impressive. It has state-of-the-art
targeting computers, advanced radar and lidar systems, advanced ECM
(Electronic Counter-Measures) equipment, in-helmet VR imaging for the
pilot, and more. The Saracen can carry about twice the electronics load
of a Stiletto-class Interceptor, with room to spare for further modular
equipment.

Unfortunately, for all its strengths, it is costly to lease and
maintain, and its heavy load of fuel and armour cuts badly into weapons
capacity. The Saracen cannot equal the weapons load of the far smaller
and less expensive Stiletto. Nor can it hope to equal the Stiletto's
manoeuvrability. Despite thrust-vectoring technology (the ability to
change the shape of its engine nozzles to direct thrust),
electro-elastic wing surface (the ability to dynamically change the
shape of its wings) and other terrific advances, the Saracen is still a
large fixed-wing aircraft with all the limitations that implies. Though
it can take much more damage than a Stiletto and remain effective, the
Saracen will not perform as well in combat with alien craft.

The Saracen requires 1 Large Hangar for storage, maintenance and
deployment. It has 2 weapon hardpoints; 2 medium belly bays.

### Recommended Doctrine

At its heart the Saracen is a long-range interceptor to be used against
extremely distant or fast UFOs. Unlike the alien craft, it is barely
slowed by moving inside Earth atmosphere, making it slightly faster than
most of the UFOs we have observed so far. This will allow PHALANX to
catch the aliens wherever they may be going -- short of interplanetary
space.

As always, the Saracen's performance against extraterrestrial craft
can't be measured without solid observational data from at least one
real combat encounter. However, if deployed in large enough flights, it
should be able to cut up alien craft of all varieties.

### Addenda

None.

Aircraft statistics:

*Size:* 10m x 27m x 5m

*Cruising speed:* 4,110 km/h

*Top speed:* 4,600km/h

*Operational range:* 10,000km

*Crew capacity:* 1 crew

*Hardpoints:* 2 Medium hardpoints (belly), 2 Equipment bays, 1 Armour
slot

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[300px](image:Inter_saracen.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")