## Pre Base Attack Options

This is a proposal for a gameplay mechanic that presents the player with
a number of choices in the event that a base falls under attack. The
purpose is to add weight to the base attacks in general and to allow the
player to somewhat customize the conditions under which the battle will
take place.

The player is presented with his options at the beginning of the battle.
Once made, the choices cannot be reversed, and will be the same even on
a retry.

## The options

There are up to three distinct options the player will have:

### The power plant

The player must choose to either shut down the base's power plant or
leave it active. Should the player choose to shut it down, the base will
be rendered inoperable for a set period of time while its power plant is
restarted. Should the player choose to leave the plant active, the
aliens may attempt to attack the facility on the battlescape. If the
aliens manage to inflict sufficient damage on the power plant, it will
go critical and explode. In this event, the battle immediately results
in a loss for PHALANX and the base along with everything in it is
destroyed.

### Alien Containment

If an Alien Containment facility is present and in use in the base, the
player may choose to terminate all specimens currently held. Should the
player choose to do this, all aliens in Containment will die, and new
specimens will have to be captured to replace them. If the player
chooses to leave the aliens alive, the AI may attempt to rescue the
confined specimens. Freed aliens will join the battle against PHALANX.

### Craft liftoff

Any PHALANX aircraft present in the base at the time of attack may be
evacuated by an emergency liftoff procedure. If the craft lift off, they
will inevitably suffer damage as alien forces outside the base take pot
shots at them, but they will not be destroyed. If the craft are kept in
their hangars, the aliens may inflict damage on them during the battle -
possibly damage beyond repair.

### Prep for siege

your troops set traps,and build walls of stuff(i.e. tables,crates) to
just turning the lights off. you should get 1-5 turns to place your
troops.

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")