One of the fun parts of the game is researching technologies that aren't
immediately useful on the battlefield but still give an amazing
immersion experience. Stuff like autopsy research, analyzing strange UFO
components, or interrogating live aliens to uncover mission information
is very entertaining, but often completely useless towards actually
advancing in the game.

While this is partially fixable by having otherwise useless techs be
required as prerequisites for more important things, there is still no
avoiding the fact that it's simply more efficient to dump all scientists
into a single project and do them one at a time.

Similarly, with the open research model the game can get somewhat
difficult to balance in the mid and later sections. One player might buy
all the scientists he can and put them on researching the most useful
technologies; another might explore the research tree far less
efficiently.

There's something *fun* about having multiple projects going on at once
and not knowing what you'll finish, and unless we give an incentive
we'll lose that.

I propose some sort of mechanic that encourages the player to expand
their research into multiple, simultaneous projects. The simplest way to
do this is just having a flat cap: if only 5 scientists at a time can
research superguns, then we can accurately predict the earliest the
player will have superguns based on when we give him one. Similarly, the
player will be forced to research other things with his remaining
scientists while waiting for supergun research.

Another, more interesting option would be to allow the player to break
the cap, but to have some sort of diminishing returns based on how far
above he goes. If after hitting the 9 scientist cap the 10th one will
only work at 50%, we could then show an "efficiency" indicator dropping
from 100 to 95% as the player raises the number of scientists from 9 to
10. There's plenty of room in the interface for this, and it's also
pretty intuitive to a player what's happening as he raises his
scientists too high.

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")