## Technical Specifications: 7.62mm Pistol Magazine

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This magazine contains 12 rounds of 7.62x25mm TT (Tokarev) pistol
ammunition. It is a conventional staggered-stack box design. Though the
original TT bullet design is ancient, the rounds in this magazine are
brand-new and ready for service, reinforced with steel and tungsten to
withstand the tremendous force of the powder explosion. This round is an
excellent penetrator, able to punch through heavy armour at close range.
However, it's also reluctant to fragment or tumble, requiring a direct
hit on a vital organ or major artery to incapacitate or kill an enemy.
Combined with super-high-velocity powder, these rounds also have a kick
like a mule. A two-handed firing stance is recommended for most users to
avoid the chance of breaking a wrist.

The magazine is meant to be loaded into a P-12 Pistol.

### Recommended Doctrine

All soldiers equipped with pistols should carry at least one reload
whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our
troops into combat without spare magazines.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")