# Pelya version

<div style="border:#000000 3px solid; padding: 0.5em;">

**New text, has to be reviewed and approved, do not translate please**

# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Heavy Nano Armour

The newest samples of the alien armour are terrifying - there are
reports of an aliens withstanding full clip of Heavy Laser discharged at
them.

Combined with an outstanding performance of a particle beam weaponry,
this raises serious concerns about our troops survivability, not to
mention the tactical advantage on the field.

We have to develop a new type of armour that will be at least half as
good as its alien counterpart, even if we won't be able to replicate or
adapt all the alien technology incorporated in those armour samples. We
already have some ideas, based on reports of our existing Nanocomposite
Armour usage - I think we may improve its design even without new alien
tech.

This project will require a fair amount of lab time and funding. We'll
start work as soon as we receive your authorization, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Heavy Nano Armour

Commander, the improved nano armour project did not yield the
astonishing success our previous research did - we could not achieve the
effectiveness of the aliens' armour. However, we've made several major
improvements. I will briefly describe the key points.

We were not able to reproduce extra-hard frontal plating of the Alien
Medium Armour in our plasma furnace, but we did manage to reproduce the
soft fabric which covers the joints - it's an interesting composition of
nanotubes mixed with fullerene nano-material, which makes the material
as flexible as leather, while keeping excellent protection capabilities.

This allowed us to design a protective suit which fully covers the body,
eradicating the main defect of our previous armour design. It provides
the wearer with ample protection from direct-hit weapons, but
unfortunately it performs poorly against explosion-type weapons.

The fabric cannot be made thick, because it would lose much of its
flexibility. Therefore, we've designed a flexible three-layer composite,
with outer layers consisting of nanotube-fullerene fabric, and an inner
layer of special polymer gel, mixed with Wolfram-Molybdene powder. When
the outer layer of the composite is burned by plasma or a particle beam
the gel evaporates in instant, effectively dissipating the heat, and the
metal powder will create a cloud around the damaged area, thus creating
a local bloom effect that will consume much of the particle beam's
lethal power.

The composite is vulnerable to projectile weapons and explosions, so it
was necessary to complement it with heavy ballistic plates. We entirely
redesigned the plating, drawing many ideas from the armour designs of
the 16th century. The decision to put most of the armour weight onto
wielder's hips in particular results in a more comfortable fit, and a
shape with distinct waist-line. We also added a so-called "backbone" -
the soft flat spring across the back that holds the upper part of armour
in a vertical position, relieving the soldier's shoulders and neck from
much of the burden.

All these improvements translate into an increased armour weight. Suits
can weigh up to 16.5 Kg, but the wearer will still be comfortable in
one.

As an additional bonus, the armour has a closed helmet. While not
totally hermetic, it renders short contact with any kind of stun and
poisonous gas harmless.

All that being said, the armour is still much bulkier than our
Nanocomposite Armour, and requires severe physical strength to wear.
Also the continuous shooting from heavy weaponry will quickly deplete
the protective gel, thus it is recommended to avoid prolonged missions.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Alien Artifact -- Alien Medium
  Armour](Translation:Alien_medium_armour_txt/en "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Artifact -- Alien Medium Armour`](Translation:Alien_medium_armour_txt/en "wikilink")
` `[`Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Pistol`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Pistol "wikilink")` or `[`Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Rifle`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Rifle "wikilink")
` (because particle beam weapons are mentioned in text)`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Heavy Nano Armour`

</div>