## General

### Convention

All UIs (also called "menus") in UFO:AI are script based. It's a
convention that all UI components (often a window) are placed in files
with **UINAME.ufo** (where UINAME is to be replaced).

### Syntax

Each UI description uses a tree of nodes, and the root must be a
`window` node. A node is an element of the UI which can contain some
properties, according to is type (we call it behaviour); and node child.

If the node only contains properties:

    NODETYPE NODENAME {
        PROPERTIES
    }

If the node only contains subnodes:

    NODETYPE NODENAME {
        NODES
    }

If the node contains both properties and subnodes, we must use an
unnamed block on the very top of the node definition:

    NODETYPE NODENAME {
        {
            PROPERTIES
        }
        NODES
    }

A small example:

    window employees {
        pic background {
            pos "0 0"
            size "1024 768"
            image "foo_image"
        }
    }

## Main objects

### Nodes

The description of the UI is defined with a tree of nodes.

You can check the autogenerated documentation

- [UI node behaviours](UI_node_behaviours "wikilink"), the documentation
- an [UML like diagram](:Image:Node_inheritance.png "wikilink") summary

### Windows

A window is a node. A tree of nodes must start with a window. Every
window needs a unique identifier.

    window bases
    {
        [...]
    }

The identifier of this window is *bases*. You can push the window onto
the stack by using the [command](commands "wikilink")

#### Window inheritance

It is possible to define a window that inherits content from another
window. Use the "extends" keyword in the window identifier:

     window hudinv extends inventory
    {
        [...]
    }

This defines a new window *hudinv* which inherits the content of a
previously defined window *inventory*. This provides a basic means of
re-using some window content. The is a simple example which defines two
soldier inventory windows (one for the HUD and another for the alt-HUD)
that inherit most of their content from a generic inventory window.

A window that extends another can also override inherited content,
simply by redefining nodes (see for an example). Note: it is not yet
possible for a window to extend more than one other window. However
chains of window extension are possible (e.g. window *C* extends window
*B* which in-turn extends window *A*).

Finally the order of windows is important... if window *B* extends
window *A* then window *A* must be defined first (in general both
windows should be in the same [ufo](UFO-Scripts "wikilink") file with
window *A* defined at the top).

### Options

...

### Components

A component is a clonable set of nodes. It is internally a named tree of
nodes, and it reuses the same syntax prefixed with "component".

    component COMPONENT_NAME extends NODE_BEHAVIOUR|SUPER_COMPONENT_NAME {
        {
            NODE_BEHAVIOUR_PROPERTIES
        }
        SUBNODES
    }

We can use it to:

1.  split a big GUI into more simple sets of nodes;
2.  define a style for many nodes (button...);
3.  define a node structure we want to reuse

Furthermore it can (in cases 2 and 3):

- Reduce memory consumption (component instance reuse component strings
  without cloning strings)
- Reduce the parsing time (we remove a lot of duplication in the script)

We instantiate a component like any other node.

        COMPONENT_NAME COMPONENT_INSTANCE_NAME {
            ...
        }

The body of the component instance can define new properties, new nodes,
or override existing ones.

### Actions

Some special nodes don't use properties, but a sequential language, and
must be a leaf.

#### Functions

Functions are leaf nodes of a window, with the type `func`.

    func FUNCNAME
    {
        cmd "someCommandName;"
    }

If a function of a node uses the name of an event (of this node), the
function will be linked into the event node. Currently, in this case,
the func node continues to exist (and then we can call it), but we
should remove and delete this node soon (without deleting the link into
the event). This method is often used for `onInit`, `onClose`, `onEvent`
of a window node. See [\#Window](#Window "wikilink") for more
information about this event.

#### Confunc

Confunc are script functions that are defined from within the scripts.
They are available as [commands](commands "wikilink") like all other
script [commands](commands "wikilink").

    confunc uniqueID
    {
        [..]
        cmd "someCommand;"
        [..]
    }

#### Cvarfunc

This is not implemented. It should be an event call when a cvar value
changes.

## Scripting

### Command

You can call client command and confunc with a `cmd`. Param of the
command is the same syntax you can use in the console:

    cmd "fooCommand;"

You can call more than one command:

    cmd "fooCommand;barCommand;"

You must understand that all commands are put into a buffer and not
called when we execute the function.

    *cvar:a 0
    cmd "set a 1;"

After executing this little code, if we test `a`, `a` is equal to "0",
but in the next frame it will be equal to "1".

### Call

You can call a function or a confunc with a `call`:

    call FUNCTIONNAME

### Expressions

Expressions (created with tokens and operators) are used in setters and
conditions.

- EXPRESSION := ( EXPRESSION BINARY_OPERATOR EXPRESSION ) \|
  UNARY_OPERATOR EXPRESSION \| VALUE
- VALUE := \*node:PATH\| \*cvar:NAME \| BOOLEAN \| NUMBER \| STRING
- BOOLEAN := true \| false
- STRING := **must** be a quoted string

The expression parser is very simple. It is very important to use "()"
every time we use a binary operator. Instead of "1 + 2 + 3", we should
use "( ( 1 + 2 ) + 3 )". Patches are welcome :-)

We can use injection in string, number, cvar name, or node path.

#### Setter

Action blocks can use a setting command to edit a cvar or a node
property.

To set a cvar, we must use the prefix `cvar:`.

    *cvar:foo = 1

For compatibility, we use 2 syntaxes to edit a node property. The older
one allows us to edit a node relatively to the current window. This one
is deprecated, we should remove it to clean up scripts and code; but at
the moment we use it every where.

    /* edit the child "foo" of the current window */
    *foo@disabled true

The second one uses an absolute path to identify a node, and some
reserved word allows us to use a relative path. We must use (for
compatibility) the prefix `node:`, but the idea is to remove this prefix
when we no longer use the old syntax.

**writing comment:** move thing about node path into it's own section
about path.

    *node:foowindow.foonode.foonode@pos "10 10"

|          |                                                                                                                                           |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `this`   | the current node (the source of the event)                                                                                                |
| `parent` | the parent of the current node (`node:parent`), or the parent of the current node into the path (`node:foowindow.foonode.parent`)         |
| `root`   | the root (a window node) of the current node (`node:root`), or the root of the current node into the path (`node:foowindow.foonode.root`) |

Reserved words

    button foo {
        /* display another button */
        click {
            *node:this@invis true
            *node:this.parent.foo2@invis false
        }
    }

#### Conditions

An action block (function or event) can use conditions. It allows for
the testing of cvars, node properties, and constant values in an `if`
block with facultative `elif` and `else` block. This syntax doesn't
allow for the use of the command preprocessor in the condition
(`<...>`), but you can first set a cvar with injection and then test the
cvar.

Syntax (`else` block is facultative):

        if ( EXPRESSION ) {
            ACTIONS
        } elif ( EXPRESSION ) {
            ACTIONS
        } else {
            ACTIONS
        }

An operand can be a cvar, constant, float, or string (according to the
operator), and can't contain space characters. A cvar must use the
prefix `*cvar:`. No problem to check two constant values or two cvar.

To check a float you may use the operators: `==`, `>=`, `<=`, `>`, `<`,
`!=`:

        if ( *cvar:mn_equipsoldierstate == 1 ) {
            cmd "mn_pop;mn_push aircraft;"
        }

To check a string you may use the operators: `eq`, `ne`:

        if ( *cvar:mn_installation_type eq ufoyard ) {
            ...
        }

And we can check if a cvar exists:

        if ( exists *cvar:mn_installation_type ) {
            ...
        }

We also can test some node properties, but only if they are numeric
ones. We must use the prefix `*node:`. We can use the full path of a
node or a relative path, with the reserved words `this`, `parent` and
`root` to identify a node from the current one (the source of an event,
or the function called).

    confunc foo {
        if ( *node:foowindow.foonode@disabled == 1 ) {
            ...
        }
    }

    checkbox foo2 {
        ...
        change {
            if ( *node:this@current == 0 ) {
                ...
            }
        }

    }

### Linking client and GUI

To call a specific function when a user clicks on a text control, you
have two choices on how to integrate the script function.

- add an instruction in **CL_InitLocal** function, in file.
- use a confunc (see above)

First example will look like this:

    Cmd_AddCommand("textname_click", FunctionName);

Example :

    Cmd_AddCommand("ships_click", CL_SelectAircraft_f);
    Cmd_AddCommand("ships_rclick", CL_OpenAircraft_f);

Second one is only to define a confunc with the name **textname_click**
Example:

    confunc ships_click {
        *ships bgcolor "1 1 1 1"
    }

This example will change the bgcolor attribute of the node named
**ships** to a [V_COLOR](V_COLOR "wikilink") value of **1 1 1 1**
(white)

### Command preprocessor

UFO:AI script uses a preprocessor for commands called from node event
and from confunc. It is useful to have a bigger abstraction between the
client code (C code) and the GUI code (script), providing both with a
more generic interface. It provides the ability to manage more things
script based.

For events: Generally used as a callback from script to client. It allows to inject property value of the source (the node that sent the event). For example, the spinner node uses it to provide to the client: on change, the difference of the change, or the current value...

<!-- -->

For confunc: Generally used as a callback from client to script. It allows to pass parameters and update nodes. We can also inject confunc properties :-)

#### Param of confunc

        /**
         * @param[in] <1> id of the item
         * @param[in] <2> quantity of the item in the base
         */
        confunc buy_updateitem {
            *bt_buysell<1> current <2>
        }

If the client sends "`buy_updateitem 3 2008`", the confunc will set the
`current` property of the node `bt_buysell3` to 2008. All data types are
not implemented. When it's needed, we can update the code to support
more types of properties.

#### Properties

        spinner bt_buysell2
        {
            min 0   max 20  delta 1
            current 10
            change  { cmd "mn_buysell 2 <lastdiff>;" }
        }

When the user clicks on the spinner, his status often changes (we or not
in min or max, the delta is not null...) In this case, the node will
execute the event command and call "`mn_buysell 2 1`" (or -1 if we click
on bottom).

We can think about injection every properties we want:

    change { cmd "mn_buysell 2 <value> <name> <width>;" }

#### Cvar

Injection of a cvar value can be useful for reducing dependencies on the
client code. They only receive a value, and the UI script can manage
it's own local var in cvar.

|                           |                                      |
|---------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| \<cvar:*name of a cvar*\> | Allow to inject the string of a cvar |

#### Path

When we call a command from a node event, the command doesn't know the
right window or the node calling it. That why we often use the current
active window and a node name (deprecated because we use more and more
popup) on the command, to compute the node source. Now we use path to
identify a node, with the name of all parents from the root to the node.
Problem is it very verbose, and dependent of the node path (if we rename
the window, move node into another panel... we need to update all the
code). That why we can inject some path. The current code allow only
tree path injection.

|               |                                                                               |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| <path:this>   | Allow to inject the path of the current node                                  |
| <path:root>   | Allow to inject the path of the current root (the name of the current window) |
| <path:parent> | Allow to inject the path of the parent of the current node.                   |

This example comes from . We can rename the window, or move this 2 nodes
into another panel, the code will work.

        optionlist select_language
        {
            ...
            whup    { cmd "mn_active_vscrollbar <path:parent>.select_language_scroll 0;" }
            whdown  { cmd "mn_active_vscrollbar <path:parent>.select_language_scroll 4;" }
        }

        vscrollbar select_language_scroll {
            ...
        }

#### Dynamic node name for setter

We can inject a value into the name of the node with the property setter
syntax.

        *bt_autosell<1> tooltip "_Item autosell disabled"

UFO:AI doesn't use any dynamic memory allocation, for the GUI,
whatsoever. Everything is allocated at loading time. It's technically
more difficult to set a value with random size (like text), but with
this syntax we can set the text property of a random node to a constant
text value. It's what we see on this example.

### Binding

Bind descriptions are in the file "". Some of command line use
"`bindui`", it is the current way to associate a key with a node, and
then with the GUI. We use a separate file to allow the player to use his
own bind.

A key associated with a node will only work when the window of the node
is on top. The node and his parents must be visible and enabled. By
typing the key, the associated node will be "activated", we will send to
the node an event fake, a left mouse button click. It is often like
calling `onClick` event of the node, but for checkbox, or radiobutton,
it will update the status and call `onChange` if it need.

In the same way, we can bind `func` or `confunc` nodes to execute
function body (without parameters). But it is more interesting to bind a
graphical node, because a tooltip with the right key is displayed for
the user.

Improvements:

- We can think about merging `bindui` into UI script (a property with
  the key), and using to custom binds).
- We can think about embedding key description into translation file to
  use a more natural key for each languages. Then, instead of using the
  bind key `DEL`, we can use `_removearmor:DEL`. The syntax should be
  explicit for the translator, and should contain a default value.

### Node events

Nodes have properties for callback events. The property type is
[V_UI_ACTION](V_UI_ACTION "wikilink"), you can find a list of all
callbacks in the documentation [UI node
behaviours](UI_node_behaviours "wikilink").

It allows us to script an event. It can be a common event, like a mouse
event. But it can be a specific behaviour event, for example the
`container` node define a `onSelect` event.

We often define a script event when we define the node.

    pic aircraft_return
    {
        [...]
        onClick     { cmd "echo click;" }
        onMouseLeave    { cmd "echo mouse enter;" }
        onMouseEnter    { cmd "echo mouse leave;" }
    }

But we can also update the script at runtime.

    pic aircraft_return
    {
        [...]
        // we must click one time to receive echos
        onClick     {
            *aircraft_return@onMouseEnter = { cmd "echo mouse enter;" }
            *aircraft_return@onMouseLeave = { cmd "echo mouse leave;" }
        }
    }

Then, we can change events into an event, but also any other attribute
in the same way. You can change the size, color or whatever you like.

### Node methods

Nodes have properties for very simple methods (no return value, and no
parameters). The property type is
[V_UI_NODEMETHOD](V_UI_NODEMETHOD "wikilink"), you can find a list of
all methods in the documentation [UI node
behaviours](UI_node_behaviours "wikilink").

We can call it with the `call` command.

    // myText is a scrollable node, like a test node.
    // This function resets the scrollbar, we scroll the content on top.
    call myText@moveHome

We can also use a key binding in this method.

## Links

- [Scripting](Scripting "wikilink")
- [Create menu](Create_menu "wikilink")
- [Scripting menus](How_to_script_menu "wikilink")

[Category:UFO-Scripts](Category:UFO-Scripts "wikilink")
[Category:Contribute](Category:Contribute "wikilink")
[Category:GUIs](Category:GUIs "wikilink")