# Description

After first combat engagements between alien intruders and earth forces
it was obvious, that the invading troops could use a support vehicle to
prevent battle losses. Soon after, jigher classes of alien spacecraft
(corrupters, battleships and harvesters) were equiped with prototypes of
such vehicles.

First combat experiences were devastating for earth troops. The alien
UGV´s massive firepower and armor proved very efective against all kinds
of human armament and armor and also against earth forces UGV´s.

2 basic types of such vehicles have been reported. Hovering armored
vehicles, heavily armed and armoured, with massive firepower and Aerial
weapon platforms.

The first type - hovering, is very similar to human design of a tank.
It´s armament is however very different. It fires plasma bolts of
immense power, capable of bringing it´s target down with a single shot
and with very strong armor. Only concentrated fire from several Ares
UGV´s has proven effective against this adversary.

The second type - aerial, is also very effective. It carries a particle
gun and a plasma grenade launcher. It is very fast and agile and it´s
main purpose is to provide aerial support and reconaissance for ground
troops on the battlefield. It´s armor isn´t strong, as it´s main defence
is it´s speed.

# Battle implications

\- Alien Tank - it is used mainly in missions with great importance and
in places, where strong opposition is estimated. Mostly corrupting
missions, base attacks etc.

\- Alien Aerial Weapon Platform - AAWP - is used in wide variety of
missions, but it´s purpose is more defensive. It can be seen on alien
bases (outside), some harvester vessels can be equipped with them also,
but the main use they find on bomber vessels.