# Description

While looking like a toy this is one of the most feared alien weapons.
On first sight it looks like a orange sized ball with two wings or rotor
blades attached to it. Its overall width is 35cm. They fly rotating.
Although there is no visible propulsion or even steering device they are
capable to evade any obstacle and track down our soldiers. As soon as it
hits is target it triggers a built in plasma charge. Although it has
only about half the strength of an plasma grenade the close distance to
the target makes it highly dangerous.

# Research

Looks like this device is propelled by its wings. They are made of a
special kind of carbon nano molecules that are piezo electric. This
allows the wings to swing about 3cm up and down to maintain the rotation
and alter the pitch and though the direction and speed of travel.

We did not understand how its control eletronics work, but they seam to
try to get into one direction even if they have to get around obsticales
and be attracted by movments.

# Game play

They are quite rare (may be used by only one alien race) and very
difficult to get as they are deployed as soon as the aliens have an idea
where their enemies could be. When thrown they try to stay on the path
in one direction. If the way is blocked the try to go around obstacles -
normally without changing their height. For safety they never go back
for more than 3 fields. They can get as far as 20 sqares per round (test
ingame!) and self destruct if they have no way out or after 4 rounds.
Whenever they see an moving person/object in the 180Â° of their aimed
direction it flyies in that direction. Enemies and friends that have
spend more than 50% of their tus in the last round are treated as
"moving".

Alien Boomerang Grenade are easy to spot but difficult to hit. As they
don't have any armor they explode on the first hit or light blast
damage.

Aliens should normaly launch serveral (2-4) of those at once.