A proposal for two standard rifle types to better manage an
'international' force. Older styles, and bullpup. Just a thought perhaps
to vary things a bit, but I'm not a hundred percent clear even on how
I'd do it, but figure maybe with some development it'd make the early
game a bit more flavorful. Also, messed up the article name.

## Description

Bullpup rifles (like the TAR 21 of Israel, or the German G11; just
examples, not recommending either, since no real world weapons) are
different than older style rifles in that the magazine is behind the
trigger mechanism. The length of the barrel is longer, making the rifle
more accurate. Extremely popular designs with many armies. Potent
criticisms tend to be that the setup is off-balancing, making prolonged
firing awkward, and raising barrel climb, though it's usually viewed as
being easier to aim. Just, that aim rapidly degrades in the event of a
burst fire being used, and it's rather awkward to reload due to the
magazine placement, unless one is specifically trained in use of it.
They also have a kind of heavy, awkward trigger system.

The 'traditional' rifle features the magazine before the trigger
mechanism (such as the US M-16/M4 variants, the Russian AK series;
again, just examples). The mechanism is a bit faster reacting, the
weight is better balanced so there is less climb when firing in bursts
(that is, to say, superior fire control), but it necessitates a shorter
barrel in most cases (certain long rifles mitigate that, but they're not
practical assault weapons), reducing accuracy. The primary advantage is
increased fire control, and some apparently view it as easier to manage
ammunition in this configuration. They're typically cheaper and easier
to produce (consider the AKs, very easy to produce), and maintain, so a
reduced cost compared to bullpup might be appropriate, but ultimately a
lower accuracy, as such, a shorter effective range.