# Description

Recently aliens created device that sole purpose seems to be render
useless our firearms. It slows down our bullets made of metal and even
knives (!). This strange shield is carried only by assault warriors like
[Ortnoks](Aliens/Ortnok "wikilink"). Fast discarding most of our
obsolete equipment will do the trick. Shield not defends from laser
beams or plasma shots.

# Research

This small device seems to be some sort of Electomagnetic Shield
generator. It uses Earth electromagnetic field and creates area of
'thicker' density. Field apears to be sphere of about 1,5 meter of
diameter. Our bullets are doing about 50% less damage to shielded target
and combat knives aren't much efective too. It fully stops grenades.
Good thing is that EM Shield interferes with robotic circuits making it
useless for machine combat. Shield is powered by microplasma generator,
which offers protection from about full assault rifle magazine.

# Game play

This device is carried by the [Ortnoks](Aliens/Ortnok "wikilink") in
middle parts of game (when aliens starts to learn from humans). Renders
most conventional weapons useless, but also made some of them useful
again. I.e. normal grenade, which is trown at enemy will stop always 1,5
m from alien. And boom. The same thing goes for grenades from Grenade
Launcher (if Plasma Grenades have metal outer shell they could be also
used). For very stubborn players - EM Shield doesn't fully stop bullet
fire. Higher calibers (i.e. gatling) or more lead in air put them down
in matter of seconds.

## Skills

[mind](Skills/mind "wikilink")