## Emergency Healing Pack

### Concept

Upon further, exhaustive examination of the complex nano-technology of
the aliens (Need to specify further in this), new applications for
nanotube-based technology were theorized.

One of those theories involved using the nanobots to heal damaged
biological tissues. However, due to the nanobots' lack of intelligence,
production of nanites capable of restoration of live tissue was
impossible...

Until PHALANX managed to get its hands on an intact alien computer. By
analizing its interface and its modus operandi exhaustively, PHALANX
could be capable of creating a sort of hivemind brain for the nanites,
capable of commanding them in works of injury restoration.

### Modus Operandi

When the mini-hivemind in the emergency healing packet receives a signal
(That signal being an agent's life signs going below a set of acceptable
limits - In Christian, HP falling beyond a critical value, but not 0 or
lower in single go), this packet would switch itself on, and quickly
command millions of nanites to restore the damaged tissues in the
agent's body before further damage causes their death. It wouldn't
rebuild them completely by itself, but it would enough of a boost so
that the agent could keep himself alive enough time to use more serious
restoration measures.

### Drawbacks

Due to the fact that you can only put so many nanites in the pack, this
measure is only usable once before the nanites are exhausted.

Also, due to the complexity of the electronics required to create the
mini-hivemind for the nanites, this is mostly a high-end apparatus, that
would require advanced research and a high amount of time to produce in
considerable amounts. It should be considered a lifesaver for those
moments in which a treacherous alien manages to catch your back and put
one of your agents from completely hale to almost dying in a couple of
shots.