## Proposal

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

FROM: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

DATE: %02i %s %i

SUB: Mass Driver Proposal

Commander, our recent success in developing the man-portable bolter
rifle has given us several ideas on other applications for the
technology.

I'm proposing an attempt to scale up the existing bolter model into
something of a long-range payload rifle. I believe we can develop a
weapon with range and accuracy approaching that of our current model
sniper rifles but with the ability to carry a small warhead similar to
our grenade launcher rounds. This will give our snipers the newfound
ability to engage not only single targets but to deny entire areas from
long range.

With your permission Commander, we will begin development ASAP.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

FROM: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

DATE: %02i %s %i

SUB: Mass Driver

Commander, the mass driver prototype is complete. I've sent a full
project summary for your review.

In short, the mass driver is simply a bigger, more powerful bolter -
with all of the same advantages and flaws. While the barrel and rails
themselves are not much longer, we had to increase the size of the
battery in order to give it the reach desired. Unfortunately this
resulted in our being forced to reduce the magazine capacity to only
three rounds. The addition of powerful recoil dampeners also increased
the weight of the rifle but were necessary to reduce the massive amounts
of recoil generated. It still kicks like a mule, but it is at least down
to a manageable level for our troops.

Where the mass driver really differs is the ammunition itself. Rather
than a solid alloy slug, each round contains a powerful explosive
warhead and fusing system. While less powerful than our 25mm grenades,
these new rounds have the advantage of being able to be launched at high
speeds and over a much greater distance. This will let our snipers place
high explosives on target from almost the same ranges as our existing
sniper rifles.

Currently we have developed two types of ammunition suitable for the
mass driver. The first is a simple air-burst thermobaric round, quite
similar in effect to our 25mm HIT grenades. The second uses a small but
powerful shaped charge, eschewing area effect for raw penetrating power
against a single target.

Simply put, this weapon will not replace our current sniper rifles. It
doesn't have quite the same reach, and by weight can only carry a
fraction of the ammunition. It will however cause utter devestation for
whatever the shooter is aiming at. I'd recommend using it in a support
role alongside our snipers, bringing it to bear only on the heaviest of
targets.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

`''Prerequisites:`
[`Equipment/Bolter`](Equipment/Bolter "wikilink")