## Official Description

A hybrid of human and alien technology, this weapon uses particle beam
focusing methods coupled with developments in human laser technology to
fire a controlled, directed burst of microwaves towards a target.

The microwaves fall between the Super High Frequency and Extreme High
Frequency rages of wave-form enegry. This allows them to literally cook
an opponent, normal armour leaving little in the way of protection;
making this a decent counter the natural toughness of the Ortnocks and
other extra terrestrial lifeforms. Artificial opponents are affected
even more, since the waves disrupt circuitry.

### Battle Implications

Similar in form and function to a laser rifle, the Microwave Laser (MwL)
is far more potent; though technically not a laser per se. Shielding has
been developed to protect the operator from the weapon's discharge.
However in order to render an emitter and power pack small enough to
carry, the waves produced dissipate quickly. A microwave laser weapon
therefore becomes a medium-range assault weapon.

MwLs have a much higher damage than a standard laser, though not as
strong as a particle beam weapon - their cost is also extremely high,
but their versitility can often far outweigh these considerations, so
long as their abilities are well complimented with the equipment of
fellow squad members. It also has an advantage over standard laser
weapons in that the 'beam' is not so easily dissipated by smoke or haze,
and is not subject to refraction like the wavelengths used by a laser
ray.

An MwL weapon's fire can be distinguished by the blue-violet colour of
the 'ray'; though invisible to the naked eye, the microwaves fired have
a tendancy to interact with particles in the atmosphere and also
expreience a form of 'red-shift' as the electromagnetic waves leave the
emitter.

Primary fire: Single shot.

Secondary fire: 'Flame' style burst. Uses 3x as much ammo to fire.

Decent accuracy up to medium-long range, abruptly stops any further than
that. Secondary fire has a *very* short range, about that of a flame
thrower and with the same firing effect.

### Damage Type

- [Damage/laser](Damage/laser "wikilink") (possibly plasma, since
  extreme heat is the actual effect created; might be easier than
  creating a new damage type of 'microwave')

### Skill

- [Skills/sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink") (Primary)
- [Skills/heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink") (Secondary)

--[MNONE](User:MNONE "wikilink") 16:46, 29 December 2006 (CET)MNONE