## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Plasma And The Rocket Launcher

Commander, my team and I have drawn up a research proposal for a new
tactical weapon based on our Plasma Grenade research.

Now that we're able to reproduce these alien plasma grenades, we've been
looking into the possibility of adapting the technology into a warhead
for our HPML/HPRL rockets. This would have all the advantages of being
fired from our standard HPML/HPRL Rocket Launcher.

If we can manage to design and produce rockets of this type, they'd lend
the HPML/HPRL increased firepower and even more tactical applications,
well worth the monetary cost.

The project is waiting for your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Plasma And The Rocket Launcher

Commander, we've finished the testing and prototype phase of our new
Plasma Rockets. We're ready to move it to mass-production and full field
deployment.

For this project, we already had ready access to all the required
technology. We've made very few changes to the general design of the
grenade. The only real challenge was to maneuver the complex machinery
around enough to fit inside the warhead for our rockets.

We've dubbed our creation the PB ('Plasma Burst') Rocket. They will be
extremely expensive to produce.

The amount of firepower we've added to our team's rocket soldier(s) is
frightening to behold. They'll become a highly valuable addition to our
arsenal.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [Plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [Explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [Plasma Rocket](Equipment/Proposed/Plasma_Rocket "wikilink")

## Description

Like the 25mm PB Grenades, the Plasma Rocket would become researchable
after researching the Plasma Grenade. Plasma Rockets would be fired from
the Rocket Launcher. The propulsion would remain the same as the regular
rockets, but the payload would be a substantial quantity of Plasma.

### Battle Implications

A Plasma Rocket would deliver somewhat more damage than a Plasma
Grenade, with identical range and accuracy to a regular Rocket. The area
of effect would be slightly smaller than the regular rocket.

## Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Plasma Grenade`](Equipment/Misc/Plasma_Grenade "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- PB Rocket`