## Small Rocket-Propelled Munition Weapon

Further advance of Gyrojet and similar projects. The weapon fires
miniature self contained rocket projectiles of two types: explosive,
comprising of solid-propellant rocket engine and tiny amount of
high-yield explosive, and kinetic, carrying no explosive charge, but
having the core made of tunsten alloy. Micro-rockets are fed from
\[revolver?\] magazine, initiated via electrical ignition and stabilized
through a smooth-bore barrel. Angled jets spin the projectiles as they
propel toward target. Smaller in comparison to RPG rockets projectiles
allow the weapon to be handled in the same manner as support or even
assault counterparts, and naturally allow quicker rate of fire than that
of RPG, even limited auto-fire ability. Practical lack of recoil allows
generally better accuracy than most ballistic projectile firearms,
however lightweight dumb munitions with relaively small initial impulse
are more prone to deviate from target than heavy RPG rocket or
high-velocity sniper rifle bullet. Small warheads of explosive
projectiles have little to no splash damage, requiring direct hit in
order to inflict any significant damage, but at the same time allows,
though not advises, using the weapon at close to medium range. Kinetic
bolts velocity may be considered relatively low, especially at the
initial part of the trajectory. But taking its larger mass into acount,
the hit impulse is high enough to provide a punch even to armored
target. Due to miniaturization, ammo production is a complex and
expensive process utilizing latest technologies, including nanotech, to
maintain high precision requirements.

Resume: support/suppressive weapon for medium to large range. Presumably
researched in the same manner as Bolter rifle.