A human high explosive technology.

High Impulse Thermobaric weapons (HIT) disperse infammable nano
particles using a small explosive charge and ignite this cloud using a
second charge. While thermobaric weapons are around for quite a while it
takes an extra research so make effective and small enough to be useful
for Phallax.

# Thermobaric Explosions

(most complicated variant, needs lots of programming, leave out what you
don't like)

During the first phase the thermobaric warhead disperses the powder to
the surrounding sqares - depending on the size of the charge. Sqares
that are blocked or not in the line of sight reduce the power of the
explosion. When the cloud get ignited it expands into neigboring fields
and floats around corners. Within the range of \~3 time the area of the
initial cloud the explodion deals fire damage. In an area up the 10
times as big as the initial cloud there is a decreasing blast damage.

In opposite to normal explosions where damage is based on the distance
to the center of the explosion thermobaric explosions fill room. If they
are enclosed the expanding flames run alone much further. (May be this
can be implemented with an simple cellular automaton modeling the
expansion by assigning pressure to sqares depending on the neighbors)

When the explosion comes to an end it leaves behind smoke that hasn't
any oxigen left. Even with an gas mask most livings get unconcious
within one or two rounds when exposed to that atmosphere. Depending on
the size of the explosion the smoke mixes with the surrounding air and
get less dangerous.

As soon as the engine supports destroying walls: Thermobaric explosions
have much better damage against structures than any other type of
explosive.

## HIT Grenade

While the area affected by the HIT grenade is bigger than that of the
plasma grenade the maximum damage it can deal to a single point or
person is not as high - especially if the target has a good resistence
agaist heat.

## 25mm HIT Grenades

There exists a conventional 25mm HIT Grenade that is already in use by
our troups. With the new nano particle technology we have been able to
make the grenade lighter and to increase the propelling charge while
maintaining the yield of the grenade. The 25mm HIT Grenade Mark II has
now an 50% increase range and an better accuracy.

## HIT Rocket

Nothing surprising here. Normally used air timed.

## HIT Charge

This is a over sized HIT grenade. It weights about 1 kg (2 1/2 pounds)
and empties even bigger rooms. As it can be only lobed two squares you
better set the time to at least 1 round and start running before it hits
the ground... (uses up 2 spaces)

## Big HIT Charge

Don't like the architecture? This is the solution! Make sure you are on
vacation when this thing blows up. (weights about 15 kg and uses 3x2
equipment spaces)