# Ufopædiaartikel

## Forslag

**TIL:** Øverstbefalende, FALANKS, Atlanterhavskommandoen

**FRA:** Kommandør Paul Navarre, F&U: Ingeniørdivisionen, FALANKS,
Atlanterhavskommandoen

**DATO:** %02i %s %i

**ANG.:** Forslag: Laserpistol

Dette er en af flere forslag jeg indsender vedrørender forskning i og
udvikling af nye laservåben. Hver af disse må udvikles separat på grund
af forskelle i størrelse, energiniveauer og systemernes kompleksitet.

Vores optegnelser vedrørende brugen af bølgelaser har givet ide til en
masse nye design, og denne er måske den sværeste at udføre: Et
deuterium-fluoride-laservåben på størrelse med en normal pistol.

Det svære i dette vil være at gøre delene små nok og lette nok til at de
vil:

1\) Passe i størrelsen i forhold til en pistol og 2) Være let nok til at
kunne sigtes og affyres med en hånd.

Som altid vil det være et kompromis mellem størrelse og kraft, men med
nok arbejdet tror jeg vi kan bygge en fungerende laserpistol. Vi venter
kun på din godkendelse.

--Kommandør Navarre

## Resultat

**TIL:** Øverstbefalende, FALANKS, Atlanterhavskommandoen

**FRA:** Kommandør Paul Navarre, F&U: Ingeniørdivisionen, FALANKS,
Atlanterhavskommandoen

**DATO:** %02i %s %i

**ANG.:** Re: Laserpistol

Øverstbefaldende, jeg undskylder på forhånd hvis min tekst ikke svarer
til den normale standard. Vi har haft en række søvnløse nætter hernede i
Ingeniørdivisionen på grund af arbejdet med laserpistolprojektet. Det
har været en imponerende mængde arbejde, men jeg er meget stolt af at
kunne sige, at det er lykkedes. Vi har udarbejdet en prototype af en
fungerende laserpistol.

The system is essentially the same as the one I've outlined for you in
my report on Continuous Wave Laser Operation. Excited molecules of
deuterium fluoride are lased and focused through a series of intelligent
lenses. Waste gases are put through our custom filtering system, which
we've scaled down even further. However, the reduced capacity of the
filtering system and the smaller optical resonator have demanded some
tradeoffs.

The laser pistol can only lase deuterium-fluoride at about half the rate
as our old Continuous Wave Laser prototype. Naturally this produces only
a half-strength beam, doing half the damage of a larger weapon. It
requires a period of continuous exposure -- several seconds at least --
for the beam to inflict enough damage to kill an unarmoured target.
Armour will complicate the issue even further, and it's impossible for
lasers to shoot through clouds of smoke, gas or fire. Still, as long as
the target isn't obscured or immune to highly-focused light or heat, the
laser will burn through anything given enough time.

All the usual advantages of laser weaponry are present in the pistol.
It's very quick to fire, and if the soldier misses his target at first,
he can adjust his aim without letting go of the trigger. And there's
another bonus particular to our pistol design. Thanks to the extremely
high accuracy inherent in laser weaponry, it will be easy for
ambidextrous soldiers to use two laser pistols at once.

We've designed the pistol to use the standard deuterium-fluoride
cartridges which we've drawn up to power all of our laser weaponry. This
means it uses the same amount of D-F as the larger designs, but uses it
up at a much lower rate, effectively giving the laser pistol more
ammunition than any of our other laser weapons.

As with all handguns, the laser pistol is strictly a backup weapon. It
isn't powerful enough to compete with rifles of any kind. On the other
hand, the laser pistol completely eliminates the problems regarding
range and accuracy that plague conventional handguns. Its range is quite
impressive indeed for a handgun. It can shoot out to 60 metres with
pinpoint accuracy thanks to the aim-correcting lenses, and it can fire
continuously for minutes without reloading. This will make it
particularly valuable in wide open terrain.

We will need to have at least one D-F Cartridge on hand at all times in
order to be able to load and use a laser pistol.

--Kommandør Navarre