# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Laser Pistol

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

Our notes on Continuous Wave Laser Operation have produced a lot of
designs, and this is possibly the most difficult one to bring into
reality: a deuterium-fluoride laser weapon the size of an ordinary
pistol.

The difficulty in making this a reality will be to get the parts small
enough and light enough so that they will:

1\) Fit into a pistol-sized package, and 2) Be light enough to aim and
fire one-handed.

As always, it's going to be a tradeoff between size and power, but with
enough work I believe we can indeed build a functioning laser pistol.
We're just waiting for your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Laser Pistol

Commander, I apologise in advance if my typing isn't up to standard in
this message. We've had a lot of sleepless nights down here in DivEngine
working on the laser pistol project. It's been a gruelling amount of
work, but I'm very proud to say that we've pulled it off. We have
prototyped a working laser pistol.

The system is essentially the same as the one I've outlined for you in
my report on Continuous Wave Laser Operation. Excited molecules of
deuterium fluoride are lased and focused through a series of intelligent
lenses. Waste gases are put through our custom filtering system, which
we've scaled down even further. However, the reduced capacity of the
filtering system and the smaller optical resonator have demanded some
tradeoffs.

The laser pistol can only lase deuterium-fluoride at about half the rate
as our old Continuous Wave Laser prototype. Naturally this produces only
a half-strength beam, doing half the damage of a larger weapon. It
requires a period of continuous exposure -- several seconds at least --
for the beam to inflict enough damage to kill an unarmoured target.
Armour will complicate the issue even further, and it's impossible for
lasers to shoot through clouds of smoke, gas or fire. Still, as long as
the target isn't obscured or immune to highly-focused light or heat, the
laser will burn through anything given enough time.

All the usual advantages of laser weaponry are present in the pistol.
It's very quick to fire, and if the soldier misses his target at first,
he can adjust his aim without letting go of the trigger. And there's
another bonus particular to our pistol design. Thanks to the extremely
high accuracy inherent in laser weaponry, it will be easy for
ambidextrous soldiers to use two laser pistols at once.

We've designed the pistol to use the standard deuterium-fluoride
cartridges which we've drawn up to power all of our laser weaponry. This
means it uses the same amount of D-F as the larger designs, but uses it
up at a much lower rate, effectively giving the laser pistol more
ammunition than any of our other laser weapons.

As with all handguns, the laser pistol is strictly a backup weapon. It
isn't powerful enough to compete with rifles of any kind. On the other
hand, the laser pistol completely eliminates the problems regarding
range and accuracy that plague conventional handguns. Its range is quite
impressive indeed for a handgun. It can shoot out to 60 metres with
pinpoint accuracy thanks to the aim-correcting lenses, and it can fire
continuously for minutes without reloading. This will make it
particularly valuable in wide open terrain.

We will need to have at least one D-F Cartridge on hand at all times in
order to be able to load and use a laser pistol.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [laser](Damage/laser "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [9mm Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/9mm_Pistol "wikilink")
- [Laser Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Laser_Rifle "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High accuracy.

2\) Quick-firing.

3\) Large magazine.

*Con:*

1\) Very low damage.

2\) Cannot shoot through smoke/gas/fire.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Laser Pistol`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")