# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, 대서양 작전 사령부

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, 대서양
작전 사령부

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: 입자 빔 무기

Commander, the UFO we recovered was equipped with a very interesting
type of weapon that we'd like to research right away. It seems to fire
some kind of high-velocity particle beam; if we can master this
technology, or at least adapt it for use on our own aircraft, we could
make air engagements with armed alien craft significantly more
survivable for our craft and pilots.

--중령 Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, 대서양 작전 사령부

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, 대서양
작전 사령부

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: 입자 빔 무기

Our report on the alien PBW (Particle Beam Weapon) is ready for your
review, Commander.

The general idea of particle-beam weaponry is to hit a target object
with a stream of accelerated particles moving at near-light velocities,
therefore carrying tremendous kinetic energy. The alien weapon is an
elegantly simple application of this concept. It is essentially nothing
more than a big particle accelerator and a set of focusing equipment,
consisting of a high-powered magnetic containment and pinch system.

My team could've built a particle accelerator to nearly the same
standards, but the focusing array shows us just how far ahead the aliens
really are. The accelerator is little more than a high-energy
synchrotron, speeding particles round and round in a circle until
they've achieved sufficient velocity. The particles are then diverted
via a magnetic field into the focusing array, where they are
magnetically constricted -- 'pinched' -- into a coherent beam. The level
of magnetic control the aliens achieve here is far greater than anything
we've managed before. The pinch system is intelligently controlled by
the UFO's targeting computer, directing the beam to its target with
dead-on accuracy.

When active, the weapon is powered directly from the UFO's electrical
system, constantly tracking one target of choice. Once the target has
been destroyed, the computer will immediately lock on to the next
hostile contact in the chain, if any.

Defending against this weapon is going to be a challenge, Commander.
There is very little that can be done against a particle beam travelling
at near the speed of light, carrying enough energy to knock anything we
can field right out of the sky. Additional armour for our aircraft will
protect against glancing blows, but in the case of a direct hit, it may
as well not be there. It seems the only realistic defence against this
weapon is to cause it to miss. We should recover and investigate an
intact alien ECM unit as soon as we can.

It will be a similar challenge for us to fit the PBW to our own craft.
We've rigged up brackets that we can mount to any medium-sized
hardpoint, but we can't generate enough power to suit this weapon just
from in-flight electricity. If we want to use the PBW in combat, we're
going to have to run it off its own antimatter-powered electrical
system. This may require more research into antimatter storage and
control, and it means that ammunition will certainly be limited.

On a brighter note, we've confirmed that all the weapon's components are
within our ability to replicate, and their specs have been loaded into
our Workshop machinery. We should be able to begin production straight
away.

--중령 Navarre