## Blueprints -- Large Hangar

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 11 August 2008

By: Gen. E. Baxter, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Due to the recent restructuring of our airfleet, we've had to make a
complete reassessment and redesign of our hangar facilities. The VTOL
(Vertical Take-Off and Landing) requirement for all new PHALANX aircraft
has eliminated our need for runways. This has allowed us to move all
hangar facilities into the actual base to improve security and response
times.

The Large Hangar provides underground space to store and maintain 1
large VTOL aircraft. Repairs, rearmament and refuelling can be carried
out in complete obscurity. The aircraft never even sees the light of day
until it's time for launch. During a launch, the hangar roof folds open
and the large hydraulic lift raises the aircraft to a position above the
roof where it can safely take off.

For landing procedures, the lift features several tall catchhooks that
-- once engaged by the undercarrige of a hovering pilot -- gently pull
the aircraft down into a landing position. The catchhooks can
intelligently adjust their own grip and even pass the grip from hook to
hook to properly line up the undercarriage for landing. Once the
catchhooks have snared the undercarriage and pulled it down to the
landing surface, all the pilot needs to do is power down his engines.
The system is simple and easy to use once a pilot gets the hang of it.

A nearly-identical system has been implemented for the Small Hangar.

The Large Hangar cannot house small craft due to incompatible support
equipment such as fuel lines.

### Recommended Doctrine

The primary function of the Large Hangar is to house dropships for rapid
deployment of troops to sites of alien activity. Alternately it can
house and support larger combat craft. Please refer to specific aircraft
files to review their capabilities and deployment strategy.

Every PHALANX aircraft requires 1 hangar of appropriate size for
storage, maintenance and deployment.

Hangars are a particularly vulnerable installation due to their direct
connection to the surface. They will be a primary point of entrance for
any extraterrestrial attackers. They are an extreme damage risk, filled
with volatiles such as jet fuel and possibly high-explosive aircraft
munitions. Worse, any aircraft left behind at the base will be a highly
tempting target; severe damage to our interceptors -- or even more
frightening, the dropship -- might put us out of action for weeks.

If possible, all aircraft should be scrambled before an impending base
attack and moved out of the area until the attack is over. They may be
engaged in the air by an approaching UFO, but at least they will have
the advantage of being able to manoeuvre. Still, this may not always be
a viable tactic. Scrambling our craft within range of a heavily-armed
attack ship could have more disastrous results than leaving them in
their hangars, as tempting a target as that would make them.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")