## Technical Specifications: S-1 Sniper Rifle

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

Originally an anti-materiel rifle, the Canada-built Forrester LRWS (Long
Range Weapon System) has since been adopted by many countries as their
principal sniper rifle. It is one of the bare handful of sniper rifles
developed after 2040 that do not feature a bullpup configuration
('bullpup' meaning the magazine and action of the weapon are located
behind the grip to reduce overall weapon length). It fires the massive
20mm HMG (Heavy Machine Gun) cartridge, fed by 5-round magazines which
can weigh as much as one kilogramme apiece. The piston-retarded floating
breech is equipped with an intricate gas dispersal system which
decreases felt recoil to the level of an ordinary hunting rifle. This
allows quick repeated shots on semi-automatic without any loss of
accuracy.

The greatest advantages of the LRWS over other modern sniper rifles are
its incredibly short barrel and light weight, the only rifle in its size
class that can fire the 20mm HMG round. This is made possible by a
uniquely-reinforced breech and barrel made almost entirely of tungsten
and titanium alloys, able to withstand the force of the round's
super-high-velocity powder. Due to its short barrel, designed for
tactical urban situations, the LRWS is only effective out to
approximately 1 kilometre -- barely a third of the range of a standard
anti-materiel rifle -- but we estimate that PHALANX should never face a
situation where this might become a problem. Its reduced accuracy is
amended by a highly-advanced scope that will calculate and display
intelligent bullet trajectories wherever the rifle is pointing.

The integral 'smart' bipod features a pneumatic suspension system that
keeps the barrel perfectly horizontal to allow accurate fire even on
broken ground. The buttstock and grip automatically mould themselves to
fit any shooter. Most importantly, this rifle has racked up more alien
kills in Mumbai than any other weapon deployed in the fighting.

At half the weight of other sniper rifles and twice the manoeuvrability,
the LWRS offers the power and flexibility that our agents require. This
weapon will not disappoint.

For PHALANX use, we have given this rifle the classification S-1.

### Recommended Doctrine

Soldiers equipped with the S-1should keep their distance, fire from
cover, and try to use aimed shots whenever possible. This is not an
automatic weapon; a missed shot wastes time, ammunition and possibly
life.

All our snipers should carry at least one backup sidearm such as the
P-12 or the CRC-8 SMG, or a combat knife at the very least. Should
aliens threaten a sniper at close range, he should immediately draw his
sidearm. Under no circumstances should he try to use an S-1 to fend off
attackers at close range. The S-1 is too slow-firing to stop an
advancing alien and will quickly deplete its magazine if this is
attempted. If the soldier tries to shoot his magazine dry before drawing
his sidearm, it will be too late.

### Addenda

Along with high-explosive rockets and grenades, this is one of the few
standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic
aliens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink")

## Links

- [Sniper Rifle
  Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/Sniper_Rifle_Magazine "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")