# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO Theory

Commander, we've captured our first UFO of the war. I don't have to tell
you that this is a unique research opportunity. However, before we can
begin to think about studying it in-depth and dismantling it for parts,
we need to do a broader overview of UFO construction as a whole. Are any
of its systems still active or boobytrapped? What kind of materials is
it made of? What dangers might it pose during storage or disassembly?
All these questions and more need to be answered before we do anything
further.

We're ready to start work whenever you say, but we will need some lab
time and funding to make a proper assessment of this amazing technology.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO Theory

Commander, my team and I have finished our analysis of the UFO we
captured. It's a real miracle of engineering, and we're all looking
forward to getting a chance to sink our own hooks into all this lovely
technology.

The craft's strange construction has raised a lot of questions for us to
answer. Much of the design seems to make little sense when viewed from
the ground. However, now that we've managed to look at it up close and
personal -- and test the alien hull materials under laboratory
conditions -- we have gained a far clearer picture of UFO capabilities.
I've made a list of our most important discoveries.

-- The alien propulsion system is a type of rocket engine unlike any
ever built on Earth. It uses direct matter-antimatter annihilation to
generate thrust by injecting protons and antiprotons into the reaction
chamber, then channeling this explosive force out the back of the
engine. This gives a UFO extreme power and needs no air or other gases
to fuel the reaction, allowing it to burn in hard vacuum. There is a
highly-advanced cooling system continuously pumping liquid nitrogen
through the engine housing in order to keep it cool and to reduce the
infrared signature. Engine heat is also used to supply the craft's
electrical needs.

-- The fuel tank is very, very small, measured in fractions of a gramme,
but even so I nearly had a heart attack when we found out what was in
there. If a containment loss occurred on one of these tanks, even three
tenths of a gramme of this antimatter would outstrip the explosive force
of the Hiroshima atomic bomb. Naturally the tank is armoured and buried
as deep as possible within the fuselage, and there are mechanical
systems present to jettison the tank in an emergency, but they aren't
perfect. A direct hit on the tank or the containment system could still
cause an explosion. Much of the blast would be contained by the UFO's
tough structure, but any explosion represents an extreme hazard to our
interceptors. The only saving grace is that proton-antiproton explosions
create little radioactive fallout.

-- The craft is extremely difficult to see with human detection
equipment, regardless of any electronic warfare capability on the
aliens' part. This is largely due to the hull materials which very
effectively absorb all kinds of radiation. We've had the most luck with
passive infrared and gamma radiation detection, as the antimatter-based
engines produce quite a lot of both.

-- The slim design, generating poor lift and being difficult to handle
in air, is partly due to the heavy weight of the hull materials. It
would be impossible to create effective wings from the alien hull
materials. Instead, every gramme of excess matter has been stripped off,
and the craft moves at high speeds so as to need very little lift
surface. The material itself is quite astonishing, part metal and part
plastic polymer. It functions as a memory alloy, 'remembering' at least
two assigned shapes, shrinking into a more compact form when cold but
automatically stretching out and assuming a more comfortable flying
shape once it heats up. It's stronger and tougher than any known
material on Earth (barring pure carbon nanotubes) and far more versatile
in aircraft design. More research is definitely required.

Armed with these facts, we can now begin to analyse the different
components and roles of the UFO. I recommend that our engineers begin
dismantling this craft for parts right away. Who knows what we'll
discover with the individual bits and pieces in front of us?

More research on the UFO itself is also warranted. I think we can delve
deeper into its intended function and perhaps gain some insight in how
to counter its activities. I'll send you another proposal about it as
soon as I can.

Whatever we end up learning from these craft, Commander, it can only
help us in the fight for Earth.

--Cdr. Navarre