\[mail_alien_ufo_crashed\] Sir, %s er for skadet til at vi kan bringe
den tilbage. Vi har dog været i stand til at indsamle noget brugbart
udstyr fra vraget. Følgende udstyr vil ankomme til % med vores
transportfly:

%s

\[*Arguments:*\] ufo name -- base name -- list of item that could be
collected aboard this ufo.

---

\[mail_alien_ufo_recovered\] Sir, vores hold har sikret sig en %s i
felten. Jeg har sørget for at den bliver eskorteret til %s, ankomst
indenfor to dage.

Vi bør skille den ad i enkeltdele når den ankommer. Vores ingeniører
mener følgende udstyr er anvendeligt:

%s

\[*Arguments:*\] ufo name -- base name -- list of item that could be
collected aboard this ufo.

---

\[mail_aircraft_landed\] Kommandør, %s er landet i base %s. Den bliver
nu %s. Vi anslår at luftfartøjet er klar til afgang igen om %s timer.

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- base name -- current status
{refuelled/refuelled and rearmed/repaired, refuelled and rearmed} --
time before craft is ready for launch.

\[mail_aircraft_bingo_fuel\] Commander, %s has run out of flight time.
It has only enough fuel left to return to %s. Mission has been aborted.

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- base name.

\[mail_aircraft_ready\] Commander, %s has been %s and is ready for
action.

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- current status {refuelled/refuelled
and rearmed/repaired, refuelled and rearmed}.

\[mail_aircraft_lost_target\] Commander, %s has lost radar tracking of
%s and is unable to reacquire. Please provide further orders.

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- pilot status {The pilot has managed to
eject safely and is currently being recovered/The pilot failed to eject
in time} -- dropship troop status -- {The dropship's troop compartment
was saved and X of our agents will be returned to base.}

\[mail_aircraft_destroyed\] Commander, {aircraft} has been shot down by
hostile action. %s.

%s

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- target name.

\[mail_aircraft_new_at_base\] Commander, %s has arrived at %s and has
cleared its diagnostics and pre-flight tests. It is ready to launch at
your say-so.

-- COMAIR

\[*Arguments:*\] aircraft name -- base name.

\[mail_alien_activity_reported\] Good morning, Sir.

We have a confirmed sighting of live aliens in %s. Civilians are at
risk; I recommend we send troops over there right away. Good luck and
good hunting.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

\[*Arguments:*\] mission location.

\[mail_alien_ufo_downed\] Good morning, Sir.

We've shot down an alien craft. The UFO has crash-landed in the national
territory of {nation}, and I've already secured permission for our
troops to go in and recover the craft. We should dispatch a dropship
immediately.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

\[*Arguments:*\] nation of crash site.

\[mail_alien_response_too_late\] Good morning, Sir.

I thought I'd let you know, the enemy force at %s seems to have
successfully %s due to our failure to respond. All hostiles have
disappeared %s. %s civilians died in the incident, and our reputation
has suffered as a result.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

\[*Arguments:*\] location name -- mission type-dependent string
{completed its mission/repaired its UFO} -- mission type-dependent
string {into the countryside/into orbit} -- number of civilians killed.

\[mail_alien_new_radar_contact\] Sir, radar is tracking an unidentified
target on our screens. %s has no scheduled flight plan and is not
responding to hails. We should launch an interception immediately.

\[*Arguments:*\] target name.

\[mail_alien_lost_radar_contact\] Sir, the unidentified object %s has
disappeared from our radar screens. All attempts to reacquire %s have
failed and we have no further knowledge of its whereabouts and
activities.

\[*Arguments:*\] target name -- target name.

\[mail_alien_base_discovered\] Sir, our operatives have discovered the
location of a large alien installation on Earth in territory belonging
to %s. This installation represents a serious threat to PHALANX and to
humanity at large, we must take it out ASAP.

\[*Arguments:*\] nation name.

\[mail_mission_summary\] Sir, I have a brief report for you of our
mission to %s.

The mission was a %s. The hosting country, %s, was %s with our
performance and our relations with them have %s.

%s aliens were found and killed by PHALANX troops. %s PHALANX troops
were killed or are missing in action, and %s civilians were killed over
the course of the mission.

%s items have been recovered from the battlefield and moved to base
storage. We captured %s live enemy specimens and retrieved %s bodies.

%s

\[*Arguments:*\] location name -- mission result-dependent string
{success/failure} -- nation name -- mission result-dependent string
{impressed/disappointed} -- mission result-dependent string
{improved/deteriorated} -- number of aliens killed in mission -- number
of PHALANX troops killed in mission -- number of civilians killed in
mission --number of items recovered -- number of live aliens recovered
-- number of alien corpses recovered -- UFO handling-dependent string
{The UFO has been recovered and transferred to a UFO hangar/The UFO was
recovered but had to be discarded for lack of space.}.

\[mail_base_attack_report\] Here is the report regarding the alien
attack on our installation %s.

The mission was a %s. We %s the base.

%s facilities received minor damage and are being repaired at no
significant cost.

%s

%s facilities received major damage, requiring immediate repair.
Refurbishment costs have been subtracted from our budget.

%s

%s facilities were completely destroyed in the attack.

%s

%s aliens were killed during the fighting. %s PHALANX troops were killed
or are missing in action.

%s items have been recovered from the battlefield and moved to base
storage. We captured %s live enemy specimens and retrieved %s bodies.

%s

\[*Arguments:*\] base name -- mission result-dependent string
{success/failure} -- nation name -- mission result-dependent string
{held/lost} -- number of minor damaged facilities -- list of minor
damaged facilities -- number of major damaged facilities -- list of
major damaged facilities -- number of destroyed facilities -- list of
destroyed facilities -- number of aliens killed in mission -- number of
PHALANX troops killed in mission -- number of items recovered -- number
of live aliens recovered -- number of alien corpses recovered -- UFO
handling-dependent string {The UFO has been recovered and transferred to
a UFO hangar/The UFO was recovered but had to be discarded for lack of
space.}.

\[mail_new_base\] Ownership of our new base has been transferred and the
premises have been secured. %s is now ready for construction.

\[*Arguments:*\] base name.

\[mail_construction_finished\] A new %s has been completed and is now
operational in %s.

\[*Arguments:*\] facility name -- base name.

\[mail_equipment_received\] The new equipment we ordered has arrived at
%s. It's been tested and is ready for use.

\[*Arguments:*\] base name.

\[mail_transfer_received\] The transfers you ordered for %s have arrived
and are ready to go.

\[*Arguments:*\] base name.

\[mail_ufo_in_hangar\] The recovered %s has arrived at one of our UFO
Hangars in %s, Commander. We can now start disassembling it for parts.

--Cdr. Navarre

\[*Arguments:*\] UFO name -- base name.

\[mail_monthly_report\] Sir, our monthly budget and performance review
is due today. Here are the figures and overview of our operations.

MAINTENANCE

Base maintenance: %s Credits

Aircraft maint.: %s Credits

Equipment maint.: %s Credits

Total maintenance: %s Credits

CONSTRUCTION

Base construction: %s Credits

Facility construction: %s Credits

Total construction: %s Credits

SALARY

Soldiers salary: %s Credits

Workers salary: %s Credits

Scientists salary: %s Credits

Pilots salary: %s Credits

Total salary: %s Credits

PRODUCTION

Production costs: %s Credits

TRADE

Aircraft bought: %s Credits

Aircraft sold: %s Credits

Equipment bought: %s Credits

Equipment sold: %s Credits

Total bought/sold: {+/-} %s Credits

UNITED NATIONS

The UN has been {happy/satisfied/unhappy} with our overall performance
and has {increased/maintained/decreased} its funding for the PHALANX
project this month.

UN funding for {next month}: %s Credits

Funding for previous month: %s Credits

Change: {+/-} %s Credits

BUDGET TOTAL

Total income: %s Credits

Total expenditures: %s Credits

Current funds: %s Credits

MONTHLY STATISTICS

Alien activity reports: %s

Missions performed: %s

Missions succeeded: %s

Missions failed: %s

UFOs spotted: %s

UFOs shot down: %s

Enemies killed: %s

Enemies captured: %s

Soldiers lost: %s

Aircraft lost: %s

Bases built: %s

Bases lost: %s

\[mail_production_finished\] The engineering team has completed
production of {item} at {location}. All equipment is tested and ready
for use.

--Cdr. Navarre

\[*Arguments:*\] lots.

\[mail_production_not_enough_resources\] There aren't enough materials
to continue production of %s at %s. The production has been suspended.

--Cdr. Navarre

\[*Arguments:*\] item name -- base name.

\[mail_production_not_enough_money\] We're too low on funds to continue
production of %s at %s. The production has been suspended.

--Cdr. Navarre

\[*Arguments:*\] item name -- base name.

\[mail_prolog\] Velkommen til den nye post, øverstbefalende. Du har nu
fuld kommando over FALANKS, rumvæsenudrykningsenheden. Din mission er at
beskytte verdensbefolkningen og stoppe truslen fra rumvæserne for enhver
pris. Hvordan du opnår dette er op til dig, vores eneste krav er at det
lykkes.

Din første opgave er at oprette et hovedkvarter. FN har adgang til
militære baser over alt i verden, så du må vælge et vilkårligt sted til
dit hovedkvarter. Vælg stedet med omhu, da det vil have indflydelse på
chancen for succes for FALANKS projektet.

En nylig analyse af angrebene på Mumbai og Bonn afslører at UFO
observationer og rumvæsen aktivitet ser ud til at fokuserer sig omkring
de mest befolkningsrige områder på jorden, f.eks. kystområdet i Nord- og
Syd-Amerika, Europa, Asien, Syd- og Midt-Afrika og Australien. Du bør
overveje at inkludere disse territorier i dit operations område.

Når du har oprettet din første base, må du klargøre dine soldater. De
soldater vi har udvalgt til FALANKS projektet skal tilknyttes et
landingsfartøj og så udstyres til kamp.

Tag godt vare på dine soldater, øverstbefalende. Resten af verden regner
med dig og beder for din succes.

Det er alt. Held og lykke, samt god jagt.

*note*

Finder du fejl eller mangler i den danske oversættelse kan du
rapporterer dette på hjemmesiden (ufoai.sf.net) under punktet Forum.
Dette kræver at du opretter dig som bruger. Du kan også deltage direkte
i oversættelsen ved at bruge wiki'en.

[Category:Contribute](Category:Contribute "wikilink")
[Category:Translating](Category:Translating "wikilink")