# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: The Universal Serum

Commander,

As you may know, our efforts at communication with the live aliens in
our Containment unit are progressing only very slowly. We're having a
great deal of trouble applying our standard interrogation methods. The
truth serum we have available has several distinct limitations; it tends
to produce a lethal allergic reaction in most alien bodies unless we
restrict it to smaller, insufficient doses, which worsens the serum's
already incomplete effect on alien physiology. We've encountered
numerous small lies and half-truths in the sessions we've taken so far.
Torture has been attempted to influence this behaviour, but to no avail.
Pain seems to have no corrective effect on the hive mind.

There's also the larger hurdle of having to inject every single specimen
of the hive mind in order to properly submerge any subject's sense of
judgment. If one member of the hive mind dies, the remaining specimens'
adrenaline-equivalent levels rise to the point where we have to start
over.

To this end, armed with our expanded knowledge of the alien mind and
body, I propose a new research program to look into a universal set of
sera that we can use to extract more reliable information, faster and
more easily. There is obviously a great deal of information inside these
specimens waiting to be seized, Commander; we just need the tools to
properly crack the shell.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: The Universal Serum

Commander,

Our development cycle on the new truth drug is complete. The new set of
chemical mixtures we've tested are effective, and they seem to be the
solution we've hoped for.

The work we've done on alien biology since the start of the invasion,
along with some help from our captives, has put us on the track of
certain psychotropic substances -- notably LSD-derivatives -- that have
very interesting effects on alien psychology. The divergence of species
has been a problem, as some compounds will work on one type of alien but
not on another, but with this new data it will be an easy task to whip
up drugs specifically tailored to the individual alien species.

Subjects under the influence of this drug have proven to be more pliable
and loose-lipped, as long as we keep injecting all the specimens in our
containment unit. Unfortunately the hive mind's natural resistance to
interrogation is still throwing a spanner in the works. Even with all
our specimens fully injected, we've not managed to break that
resistance, and the accuracy of our test information has still not been
100% reliable. All data we receive still requires some degree of
time-consuming verification work.

On the positive side, the act of getting the information out of our
subjects has become quicker and more painless, which should speed up
some of our research. The danger of allergenic reaction is much lower
and the number of subjects succumbing during interrogation has dropped
significantly. The deeper effect of the new drugs may even give us
access to more sensitive information that we would not have been able to
extract from the hive mind with our old serum.

We should keep up our interrogation efforts to get maximum benefit out
of the new drugs.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor