## Tekniske specifikationer: MG12-maskingevær

**KLASSIFIKATIONSNIVEAU GUL**

FALANKS-rumvæsenudrykningsenhed

Teknisk dokument: Sikkerhedsniveau Delta

Arkiveret: 20. marts 2084

Af: Kommandør Paul Navarre, F&U: Ingeniørdivisionen, FALANKS,
Atlanterhavskommandoen

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overblik

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The British SA-3000 GPG (General-Purpose Gun), colloquially known as the
Great British Gun, is a versatile drum-fed machine gun that has seen
service throughout the world in its 16-year operational life. First
deployed in 2068, it quickly found its niche as a light machine gun for
infantry and ground-support helicopters, able to be fired from the hip
as easily as from a bipod or pintle mount.

The infantry version of the GPG is a highly versatile and reliable gun.
Unlike most machine guns the GPG takes caseless ammunition from a large
drum magazine instead of a belt. This limits fire rate and magazine
endurance, but it's also the reason for the weapon's versatility. The
reloading process for the GPG is almost as quick and easy as an assault
rifle, and the drums contain 100 rounds each. This allows the GPG to be
used almost as a heavy assault rifle. The magazines are on the bulky
side, but still small and light enough for an average soldier to carry
several of them into battle.

The gun contains surprisingly few computerised components, only a
powerful recoil compensator and shock absorbing system. This helps to
improve accuracy above that of older machine guns, although it's never
going to be a sniper rifle. The solid design and sheer simplicity of its
internals combine to make the GPG a very reliable weapon. It has seen
action in Mumbai and performed admirably there, providing effective and
highly mobile suppressive fire, sometimes capable of pinning down whole
alien squads depending on the terrain.

The GPG fires the popular 4.7mm caseless round, also used in our AR-80
Assault Rifle. Unfortunately the magazines are not interchangeable
between Assault Rifle and GPG, as the Assault Rifle uses a different
feed system.

We feel that the GPG is the best candidate for our arsenal in the
machine gun category. Our troops can depend on this gun to deliver heaps
of fire when and where they need it most.

For PHALANX use, we have given this machine gun the classification MG12.

### Anbefalet doktrin

The MG12 will be an extremely valuable tool in controlling the
battlefield. It can set up mobile strongpoints from which to stage
attacks on alien positions, it can provide effective suppressive or
diversionary fire from all ranges, or it can be used simply as a
powerful medium-range assault weapon.

It should be a prime candidate for any soldier with heavy weapons
training.

### Tilføjelse

Ingen.

------------------------------------------------------------------------