# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Astrogation

Commander, the recovery of an intact alien astrogation unit is an
important milestone. Although this unit doesn't seem to contain a star
chart, it will allow us to decipher alien astronomical notations and
upgrade the power of our own astrogation systems by several orders of
magnitude. Eventually the work we do here may help us backtrack the
aliens to their home planet.

Along with Alien Propulsion and Alien Detection, Alien Astrogation is
one of the three pillars of UFO design. Understanding it will bring us a
big step closer to the ability to build an atmosphere-capable
interplanetary defence craft.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Astrogation

Commander, we've finished work on the captured alien astrogation unit.
Here is a summary of my report.

We concluded early on in our survey that this astrogation unit is, at
its core, a purpose-built computer of extraordinary power loaded with
specialised software -- all intended solely for the purpose of plotting
a course from one point in space to another. It uses a new, alien system
of astronomical notation which we've decided to adopt in order to make
use of this alien hardware.

Now that we've figured out its notation system, we can see that the
astrogation unit is very good at what it does. Given correct input, the
system can plot a course from anywhere to anywhere in seconds, and it
can intelligently recompute that course with filters like 'least travel
time', 'shortest distance', 'fewest navigational hazards', and so on.
These filters can be layered on endlessly until the system spits out the
exact course you want. It is even able to take into account
faster-than-light capability when plotting a course, which all but
verifies the theory that the aliens do indeed have access to some type
of FTL technology.

The only problem with the unit's plotting method is that it requires a
star chart to give accurate courses beyond the UFO's sensor range. We
have never found a star chart loaded onto any UFO we've recovered.
Perhaps only UFOs with an FTL drive have a chart loaded; they would
surely need it for navigation.

Instead of the elusive star chart, the astrogation units we've recovered
so far contain enormous detail on Earth and the solar system. Surface
maps of the outer planets and all their moons (even a
previously-undiscovered moon of Pluto), spectrum analyses of every body
in the asteroid belt as well as the distant Kuiper belt, and the orbits
of every body in the solar system plotted out hundreds of years in
advance. We're not sure if this information will be of any use to us,
but it will greatly enhance humanity's body of knowledge about our home
system -- whenever we're allowed to release it into the public.

It's possible to program our own star charts into the astrogation unit,
but I can only imagine how primitive and incomplete our charts might be
compared to what the aliens have. I wouldn't condone any interstellar
travel with these units until we can capture an alien chart. However, in
the meantime we could certainly use these units to navigate around the
solar system if we could design a PHALANX craft capable of launching
into space. They will greatly simplify the whole process of
interplanetary travel to the point where we'd be able to launch missions
to Saturn or even Pluto at the click of a button.

And that is something we should do as soon as humanly possible.

--Cdr. Navarre