# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Orbital UFO Activity

Good morning, Sir.

Let me begin by stating a few ugly realities.

1\) All of humanity's space-based assets have been evacuated after the
initial attack on Earth. Only a few stations and outposts are still
running, and they have been remanded to military control, with only
skeleton crews of volunteer military and civilian personnel.

2\) We have just a handful of space-based weapons platforms, none of
which are equipped to harm alien craft. The aliens have the ability to
instantly exterminate any human endeavours in the solar system.

3\) Our satellite grid is wide open and could be wiped off the map in an
instant. Emergency landlines exist, but only for military use. If the
grid does come under attack, comms between PHALANX command centres and
assets in the field -- aircraft and ground teams -- will be hamstrung.

4\) There is no doubt that there are alien craft moving in orbit,
ferrying items and UFOs between Earth and the alien homeworld, and right
now there is nothing we can do to stop them.

This leads us to only one conclusion: The space around Earth is no
longer under our control. The only reason humanity retains any space
capability at all is because the aliens have chosen not to destroy it
yet.

Our shocking vulnerability from space is demonstrated in the fact that
we've fought this war exclusively on the ground and in the air. We have
no space-planes that can be adapted for combat, and designs for building
them are years from completion. Not even PHALANX could create a workable
combat plane in time to affect the outcome of the war with the
technologies currently at our disposal.

What little orbital weaponry we have is severely inadequate. There are
nuclear missiles which the UN won't let us use, and which would be far
too destructive to help our research efforts if one of the colossal
things ever managed to score a hit. There are experimental laser and
maser platforms which are too underpowered to put a dent in heavy UFO
armour. If the aliens decide they want to bomb us into extinction, they
can just walk right up and knock. This is a situation that has to be
remedied.

The only question we can ask about this orbital UFO activity is how
we're going to counter it. Until now we've not been able to affect the
situation, but with budget increases and our growing reputation in the
UN, pieces are starting to fall into place for a new step to our
strategy.

By far the most promising idea for a short-term orbital response weapon
is to adapt one of the 'space guns' used by NASA and the European Space
Agency to launch satellites and -- before the invasion forced us to
evacuate our extraplanetary installations -- fire resupply packages at
Tranquility Base colony on the moon. These space guns are essentially
giant railguns with enough power to send a satellite-sized payload into
orbit. With our library of UN research on electromagnetic weaponry, we
can upgrade one of these guns into an anti-orbital weapon capable of
knocking alien ships out of the sky. We're confident we can convince at
least one of Earth's space agencies to lend us a suitable gun for the
job.

There are problems, however. Obviously these guns can't move, being
built into the side of a mountain, so the target would have to pass
directly in front of the gun for us to have a chance to hit it. Since we
can't count on the aliens to give us a point-blank shot, this has been a
big stumbling block, but we believe there may be a solution: If the gun
can't move in order to hit something, the bullets will have to move
instead.

The plan calls for development of a special shell that is able to adjust
its own trajectory with a suite of onboard rockets. We're currently
pushing the UN to let us use a miniature nuclear warhead -- no more than
3 kilotons -- to make sure that any hit will kill. This orbital shell
will be large, heavy, and a hell of a challenge to load into the gun,
but it's absolutely necessary to give the project a realistic chance of
success.

As you see, Sir, these problems can all be overcome, but we need to do
some serious R&D and commit a good deal of funding to get it all
working. Please lend your authorisation as soon as is feasible.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Orbital UFO Activity

Good morning, Sir.

The PHALANX orbital gun is tested and ready to rock. We have six shots.
All we need now is a target and your authorisation.

For my full report:

We've finally carried out all the gun enhancements I mentioned. I'm
sorry the work on the gun took so long, but we had to tear out all their
old capacitor banks and replace them with military-grade capacitors of
the same size. Then we had to put down new rails since the old ones were
just too worn-out. Still, it was worth it.

Work on our new impact vehicle has also been completed. Over the course
of the development process we decided to ditch the concept of an
artillery shell, and are now referring to the impact vehicle as the
'Dragon' Space Missile. It's a semi-independent tracking missile,
connected to our Command Centre by a laser beam, and guided by three
systems at once: a beam rider, a huge infrared tracking array, and a
manual adjustment interface in the Command Centre. We can plot the
missile's course accurately to a circle less than a centimetre in
diameter.

The UN has reluctantly allowed us to use the 3-kiloton mini-nuclear
warheads we were pushing for, removing a lot of our concerns and
limitations. With this warhead on board, it doesn't matter how hard or
softly we hit a UFO. If it's hit, it's coming down.

The missile is able to adjust its own trajectory in and out of
atmosphere. It's about the width of a VW Beetle and should inflict
severe damage to any Carrier UFO it hits; hopefully enough to cause a
crash, or at least knock it far enough down into the atmosphere to be
engaged by our interceptors.

We should be able to fire several shots before the UFO can withdraw out
of range or provide return fire to the gun. However, one way or another
it's likely that the UFO will identify the target and attempt to destroy
it from orbit. All personnel and vital equipment have already been
evacuated.

We may lose the gun, but what we stand to gain is immeasurable.
Technology that represents a fighting chance for humanity in this war.
Nothing the aliens have left on Earth has ever been so important.

There's an alien FTL drive somewhere up there, Sir, and I mean to get my
hands on it.

The gun is ready to fire at your say-so. I'll let you know as soon as
there's a target in range.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Origins`](Research/Alien_Origins "wikilink")
` `[`The Alien Strategy`](Research/The_Alien_Strategy "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Orbital UFO Spotted`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")