--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 01:27, 20 October 2006 (CEST)

I added the new description, but didn't register first. I have solved
that problem now. Comments anyone?

--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 20:03, 20 October 2006 (CEST) Just
saw that you wanted the descriptions added here instead. So...

**Description:** The MkII Electromagnetic Rifle launches a small
magnetic alloy projectile at medium hypersonic velocities to produce a
kinetic kill on most targets. Tests with high-density penetrators
against armor have shown that the MkII can penetrate the standard armor
of most light and some medium tanks currently in use. However the
secondary damage induced would probably not be enough to disable the
target without multiple hits on vital systems.

The MkII is designed around a superconducting linear accelerator
operating in a low pressure inert gas atmosphere. The new generation of
switchable high temperature superconductors has made it possible to
realise some theoretically sound but previously highly inefficient
designs dating from the early years of research into EM accelerators.

Due to the limitations imposed by high power requirements and the
external environment, the MkII accelerator is operated in an
underpowered mode. If operated at highest acceleration the projectile
either fragments explosively or is turned into a hypersonic particle
stream when exiting the barrel into the denser air. The recoil at higher
power would also be significant with the current projectile.
Furthermore, underpowered operation allows higher burst repetition rates
by reduced cooling requirements.

The projectile is smaller and lighter than the standard projectile used
in the AR-80 assault rifle. The current design uses a composite
projectile with a penetrator consisting of a high density magnetic alloy
core surrounded by a low density ceramic shell for ablation resistance
and increased effect on soft targets, trading armor penetration and
range for tactical flexibility. The magazine incorporates a small inert
gas supply and and a high capacity storage capacitor. Care should be
excercised in handling of spare ammunition in the field, since a
breached or overheated storage capacitor will turn into the high-tech
equivalent of an incendiary grenade.

The EM Rifle has no moving parts, and is therefore silent apart from the
sound of the projectile as it breaks the sound barrier. Despite heavy
shielding, the switching of the superconductors in the MkII rifle has
severe effects on electronic equipment in the vicinity when fired,
especially in the direction of the target. Non EMP protected electronic
equipment within a 2m radius or 5m in front of the gun will risk
permanently reduced performance or burn-out.

**Tactical implications:** The MkII EM rifle is characterised by high
stopping power and good armor penetration capabilities, but the
relatively low overall rate of fire suggests that a secondary weapon
should be considered for close combat. The lack of noise from a chemical
propellant and muzzle flash makes it very difficult to locate the
shooter, though the electromagnetic and thermal signature limits its
usefulness as a sniper weapon or for covert operations.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Graphics - particles?** One way to visualise the shots would be as an
elongated fireball, but small and faint. There could also be a very
faint smoke/vapor trail quickly dissipating to show the direction
better. Probably not very realistic, but something at least.

--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 23:26, 22 October 2006 (CEST)

--[Sklavit](User:Sklavit "wikilink") 22:13, 6 November 2007
(CET)**Railgun\`s operation** description is not well-posed, read more
closely [Wiki:Railgun](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Railgun).

"The soldier can simply unlock the old barrel, let \*it drop to the
ground\*, and slot in a fresh spare. Then he can replace the battery
pack for a new series of shots." -- Projectile shells not just drop -
they are shot out by gas. Two action reload also has pure reliability. I
mean, it can be easily improved.