# UFOpedia Entry

## Förslag

**TILL:** Baskommendör, PHALANX, Kommandocentralen för Atlantiska
Operationer

**FRÅN:** Överste Ingrid Falkland, Underrättelseavdelningen, PHALANX,
Kommandocentralen för Atlantiska Operationer

**DATUM:** %02i %s %i

**ÄMNE:** Förslag: XVI Folkräkning

God morgon, Baskommendör.

Med den nya utveckling av infektionen av jordens civila befolkning av
denna utomjordiska organism så stiger behovet av ett sätt att avgöra
antalet smittade och spridningshastighet i olika regioner. Lättare sagt
en gjort men lika viktigt som att hitta själva botemedlet. Vi kan inte
hjälpa någon ifall vi inte vet om de är sjuka.

Vad jag föreslår är att vi skapar en kontinuerlig folkräkning som
kontrollerar alla registrerade individer på hela planeten för
XVI-infektioner genom ett litet blodtest. Alla kommer att bli tvungna
att ta det här testet en gång i veckan för att säkerhetsställa att de är
friska -- och oftare än så om det finns misstanke om smitta. Provet
behöver enbart vara en droppe blod taget från godtycklig ven för att
förhindra manipulering. Lyckligtvis så är XVI organismen stor och tydlig
så vi kan testa på stället med nästan 100% säkerhet.

Det här kommer vara ett stort projekt som kräver ett utbrett samarbete
med underrättelsetjänster i jordens åtta stora nationer. Jag har redan
förberett planen och simulationer för att demonstrera operationen och
effektiviteten av programmet. Med tid och kapital kan vi övertyga dem om
projektets vikt och ha projektet igång om några veckor.

Allt vi behöver är din signatur på den streckade linjen, Baskommendör

Med vänliga hälsningar,

Överste Falkland

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: XVI Census

Good morning, Sir.

The XVI census program has just gone into effect. Weekly rolling tests
have commenced this morning, and I've got a full report on our estimated
performance levels and operational details.

Our strategy is based around local medical centres, where the XVI tests
are performed by existing nursing staff under the supervision of a small
police or military guard. If a test turns out positive, this guard will
perform the arrest and turn the infected prisoners over to the UN for
containment and study. Once the aliens figure out this scheme -- I don't
think it'll take them long -- the infected people will start avoiding
the census, thereby giving us the data we need simply by their absence.

As always there's good news and bad news. I'll start with the bad news.

Despite our best efforts, the census data will have some limitations.
99.9% of the planet's population is registered with one national
authority or another, but out of ten billion people that still leaves
several million unaccounted for. We will be able to extrapolate figures
that are accurate to within several thousand heads, but the statistics
we generate won't ever be exact. This means the program is less useful
for identifying those who have been infected, but still a godsend for
keeping track of XVI spread and alien activity on a global basis. After
all, we need to know what kind of progress we're making against this new
threat.

The good news is that the UN and the member nations have agreed to
shoulder the entire cost of the census program. They are handling all
the equipment and manpower locally, with strenuous checks as to the
reliability of personnel and the validity of the results. The
information will be piped directly to our command centre at no charge to
us.

The best thing about this program is that we can now keep track of
infection levels and how much threat each region is under from XVI. This
will work in conjunction with our normal detection methods to warn us
where alien activity is worst and allow us to intervene before the
situation becomes critical.

Any area where XVI seems to be gaining ground should be posted with
additional air patrols, and we should be on the lookout for any attempts
by the aliens to solidify their hold on the ground. Alien activity
reports in this area should be investigated and responded to with
extreme prejudice.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland