# Objekt i UFOpaedia

## Förslag

**TILL:** Baskommendören, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FRÅN:** Kommendör Paul Navarre, Forskning och utveckling:
Utvecklingsavdelningen, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**DATUM:** %02i %s %i

**ÄMNE:** Förslag: Antimateria

Baserad på de extremt inressanta fynden som vi gjorde under vår
undersökning av spanings UFO't så skulle jag vilja få ditt tillstånd att
erhålla tid i laboratioret för att mer noggrant kunna analysera
rymdvarelsernas vidsträckta användning av antimateria och dess
användningsmöjligheter i krig.

I synnerhet så skulle jag vilja se ifall vi kan komma på ett sätt att
replikera antimatera för våra egna ändamål. Metria-antimateria
reaktioner har häpnadsväckande potential som bränsle. \###In terms of
energy generation, it has probably the best size-to-weight ratio of any
material in the universe; the ability to use it like the aliens use it
would catapult our technology base centuries into the future. We must
research this at the earliest opportunity!

--Cdr. Navarre

## Resultat

**TILL:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FRÅN:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATUM:** %02i %s %i

**ÄMNE:** Sv: Antimateria

Our study on antimatter is complete, Commander, and we're ready to
present our results. I'm afraid the news is mostly bad.

There are a lot of things the aliens know that we don't. Nowhere is this
more clear in their widespread use of antimatter. It seems to be
plentiful for them, at least plentiful enough to send out UFO after UFO
to Earth, burning tanks full of antiprotons. Human experiments into
antimatter, on the other hand . . .

The first artificially produced antimatter on Earth consisted of 9 atoms
of anti-hydrogen created at the CERN particle physics laboratory,
situated near Geneva on the border between France and Switzerland. Not
long after, another lab produced approximately 100 atoms. We've come
slowly forward over the years in tiny, tiny steps, but even though we
can now produce antiprotons by the millions, it's easy to forget just
how little that really is.

In fact, the biggest obstacle to our adaptation of the alien fuel is the
availability of antiprotons. We've come a long way since 1995, but even
with every particle physics laboratory in the world churning out as many
antiprotons as possible, it would take eighty million years to produce 1
gramme's worth of antiprotons. By comparison, the amount contained in a
Scout UFO's tank exceeds that of all the antimatter produced on Earth
over the past hundred years.

(Extra: if UFO -- Harvester already researched) Another worrying point
is that the aliens also seem to be using antimatter as part of their
weapons systems. Antimatter-fuelled alien missiles are one thing; what
if they begin using antimatter itself as an explosive? My staff has come
up with more than one disconcerting idea along these lines. For myself,
I think we should try to head the aliens off at the pass in this regard.
A special program regarding antimatter-based weapons may be a highly
interesting option to pursue -- it may be a more economical prospect
than trying to adapt alien rockets to our interceptor craft. (End Extra)

Humanity is a long, long way off from being able to create antiprotons
in the amounts necessary to fuel these matter-antimatter rockets. The
bottom line is, we cannot duplicate this alien technology. We don't know
how they create their antimatter or how they manage to generate enough
electricity to do so. Unless and until we can get our hands on this
equipment, our efforts will be fruitless. Our only major successes have
come from studying how the aliens store their antimatter. We are
confident we can employ the same magnetic storage techniques, creating
special protective pallets that will fit in our Storage facilities
without any further adaptations, and we've designed antimatter fuel
tanks that will fit in our interceptors, given some major overhaul. Of
course we'll need a full understanding of the alien engines before we
can begin incorporating it.

For all intents and purposes, we are unable to replicate the alien fuel.
If we use antimatter in our own technology we will be dependent upon
recovering it from alien sources. This seems a dangerous course of
action, but we may have no choice; we need to adapt this technology as
soon as possible if we are to have any chance of truly stopping the
invasion.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Länkar

- [Utomjordiska material](Forskning/Utomjordiska_material "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`UFO -- Scout`](UFO/Scout "wikilink")
` (Extra result if following already researched: `[`UFO -- Harvester`](UFO/Harvester "wikilink")`)`

*`Opens:`*
` Allows player to store Antimatter`
` Enables use of Antimatter in production`
` `[`Upgrade -- Antimatter Engines`](Aircraft_Equipment/Upgrades/Antimatter_Engines "wikilink")
` `[`Antimatter Weaponry`](Research/Antimatter_Weaponry "wikilink")` (if `[`UFO -- Harvester`](UFO/Harvester "wikilink")` already researched)`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")