# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, 대서양 작전 사령부

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, 대서양
작전 사령부

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: 외계인 유도탄 발사대

Commander, we made an extremely interesting find on the UFO we
disassembled. It carried an advanced and highly dangerous onboard
missile launcher, using powerful magnetic rails to accelerate its
missiles to hypersonic speeds before they even leave the launch tube.

We want to investigate this launcher and determine whether or not it can
be adapted to fit on PHALANX aircraft, or even if it can be applied to
other purposes. This launcher system would be far more effective in
bringing down UFOs than our Sparrowhawks, possibly even more effective
than our current SAM systems. If we can adapt it we stand to gain a
substantial boost to the firepower of our whole airfleet as well as
ground-based missile systems.

Please approve this program whenever you can, Commander.

--중령 Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, 대서양 작전 사령부

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, 대서양
작전 사령부

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: 외계인 유도탄 발사대

Commander, we've finished work on the alien missile launcher. It's a
fairly simple affair. Firing is computer-driven, fed directly from the
UFO's targeting computer. Powerful electromagnetic coils around the
launch tube accelerate the missile to extreme speeds, reaching up to
Mach 4 at the point where the missile leaves the tube. Only once the
missile is fully free of the tube do its onboard rockets kick in.

The good news is that we've managed to succesfully adapt fittings,
controls and power feeds to allow the Alien Launcher to be safely
mounted to our aircraft. The bad news is that we've had to drastically
reduce its magazine size in order to meet weight and size restrictions
on our aircraft.

Our aircraft are too small and light to be able to carry so many, and
most of our craft aren't laid out with internal missile magazines. We've
had to custom-build a magazine mounted with the launcher, the capacity
of which falls behind the stores found on UFOs.

It's not all doom and gloom, though. We believe that we can modify the
launch tube to be able to fire human missiles as well as the alien type.
We'd have to develop the missile ourselves, of course -- no current
human missile is capable of withstanding the stress of being fired from
this launcher. However, we're confident we can design a missile that
will survive launch and incorporates new UFO-tracking technologies to
improve homing and ECM capability.

I'll send you a design proposal as soon as I can, Commander.

--중령 Navarre