# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Origins

Good morning, Sir.

Though we are still struggling to get operational, one of our first
orders of business must be to find out where the aliens are coming from.
The only thing we know right now is that they enter the atmosphere from
space, do what they came to do, and then race into orbit again before
disappearing from our screens. We need to find out what happens before
and after these points. Where do they come from, how do they get here,
and where do they go?

We've seen no evidence of ships holding in Earth orbit or basing
facilities anywhere in the solar system, but that doesn't mean they
aren't there. The region of the asteroid belt and the outer planets --
the space between Mars and Neptune -- has been poorly monitored in a
military sense and, given the stealth capabilities demonstrated by
attacking UFOs, an alien fleet may have been misidentified or simply
failed to register on civilian equipment. There has been no
comprehensive effort at all to scan the surface of the various
base-viable celestial objects in our solar system.

Therefore, I propose a new research program aimed at scouring the solar
system with probes and powerful optical- and radiotelescopes to detect
alien activity anywhere in our space. Our scientists will also review
the data we have of past incursions to try and form some kind of picture
of alien movements to and from Earth orbit. Even if there's a fleet
hiding behind Mars or one of the outer planets, they must eventually
reveal themselves if they continue sending UFOs down to the surface of
Earth. If we put enough eyes on the problem, even these aliens can't
hide for long.

This project will take a significant amount of funding and lab-time,
Commander, so it requires your authorisation before work can begin.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Origins

Good morning, Sir.

I've got the results of our Alien Origins project here and I believe
you'll find them encouraging. Here is my summary of the data.

The project overall has been a resounding success in integration and
cooperation. For several short periods over the past few days, we had
direct control over every civilian and military detection asset in the
solar system, including several installations in the asteroid belt so
secret that we have been sworn to silence by the UN. Our deep-space
probes have scanned every inch of buildable surface to detect any sign
of an alien base. With these resources at our disposal, we have achieved
continuous detection coverage of approximately 90% of the solar system
over the past two weeks. The remaining 10% has been uncovered no longer
than forty minutes at a time.

Unfortunately -- depending on your understanding of the word
'unfortunately' -- we could find no evidence of alien fleets hiding in
our solar system. We have been so thorough that these results are all
but conclusive. There is no way to be absolutely sure that our
conclusions are correct, but I make the following statement with high
confidence:

We do not believe there are alien ships or bases in our solar system at
this time.

This answers one of our questions, but brings us no closer to
understanding where the aliens come from or how they get here. In fact,
the question of how they get here becomes an even greater conundrum than
it was before. If the aliens are not based in our solar system, how can
they be delivering UFOs to Earth?

I have spoken at length with Cdr. Navarre and members of his team about
this issue, trying to figure it out, and most of our theories still seem
like crackpot speculations even to ourselves. However, fate gave us the
proof we needed.

We were having little luck with the issues of 'how' and 'where' until we
got our hands on last week's video records from the MIMIR space
telescope. Upon watching the footage, we realised that the MIMIR array
had accidentally managed to catch a UFO arrival on film. We have full
records in the visible and infrared spectra of a large, unfamiliar class
of UFO 'popping' into existence approximately 10,000 kilometres from
Earth, from where it ignited its engines and set a course for the
planet.

It is possible the aliens could have some manner of 'cloaking'
technology that has prevented us from detecting the UFO beyond that
range, but we have strong doubts about this; the appearance was highly
sudden, accompanied by a burst of gamma rays and a momentary gravitic
anomaly. There was not even the slightest evidence of this UFO's
existence prior to its appearance 10,000 klicks from Earth.

The most likely conclusion is also the most frightening: the aliens do
not need to be located in our solar system, because they have a means of
travel that is faster than light. Apparently this FTL
(Faster-Than-Light) drive allows them to 'jump' into the Sol system from
a distance well beyond our detection range. We don't know how this could
be possible, as it clearly violates one or more concepts of general
relativity (e.g. causality and/or special relativity), which remains the
most accurate model of physics we have. The aliens clearly know
something we don't.

Our next priority must be the capture of an FTL-equipped UFO so that we
may study and adapt this drive for our own spacecraft. Obviously, this
will not be an easy task, but developing the ability to strike back is
paramount -- just in case we need to end this invasion the hard way.

Of course, the final decision on how to balance our short-term defence
needs and long-term retaliation rests with you, Commander.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland