## Official Description

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Advanced Radar Facility

Commander, thanks to our recent capture and research into alien sensor
equipment, I am now confident that we can drastically upgrade our radar
capabilities using these new technologies. I'd like to submit a research
proposal for a new detection facility, incorporating all the advances
we've made so far.

The Advanced Radar Facility will use exclusively PHALANX-manufactured
equipment rather than off-the-shelf components. Much of the technology
is already in place. We just need additional time and funding to
complete some of the designs and adapt our software into a coherent
package.

We'll be waiting for your go-ahead, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Advanced Radar Facility

Commander, please find attached the completed blueprints to our new
Advanced Radar Facility. We've managed to seamlessly blend human and
alien scanning hardware, controlled by a fully interactive software
suite designed specifically to manage the new installation.

Our biggest single innovation has been to sync up the alien gravity
sensors with our detection software. It adds an entire new spectrum to
our scanning resolution, allowing us to track UFOs with the kind of
reliability we could only dream of a few months ago. A base with this
installation can detect the enemy sooner, at far greater distances, and
track them for longer with less risk of losing contact.

While we can't use the new suite in our existing radar towers, it's
possible to retrofit some of the simpler advances to our old
installations at no significant cost. I've gone ahead and authorised the
upgrades to be performed over the next maintenance cycle. Expect small
improvements to detection rates and tracking across the board,
Commander.

The lab's all cleared up and ready for the next project.

--Cdr. Navarre

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")