# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Corrupter

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. This is one of the largest UFOs we have observed
so far, but the relatively light armament indicates that it's not a
combat craft. Our preliminary walkabout of the interior has given us
only tantalizing clues about its intended function.

A lot of the equipment is stuff we've seen before, containers geared
towards storing live and dead biomass, but this UFO also has a lot of
other kit that's leaving my team scratching their heads. There are
mysterious alcoves with ports and valves leading to tanks full of human
blood, with strange controls unlike anything we've seen from the aliens
before. There are banks of robotic arms all ending in alien syringes,
like some kind of mass inoculation centre -- and there's more that we
can't even begin to describe. Just being inside it gives you a sense of
something hostile to all human life.

I think we need to do some serious investigation on that thing right
away, Commander. There's something very very wrong about it, and I'm not
going to be able to sleep until I know what it is.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Corrupter

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

This UFO, which we've come to call the Corrupter, is a nightmare of
alien medical technology. It makes only a few concessions to air combat.
Its main purpose, without a shadow of a doubt, is to land on Earth and
carry out hideous operations on human victims.

Where previous alien equipment seemed to focus mostly on collecting
human biomass, the Corrupter's interior -- particularly the massive
blood transfusion banks -- are geared towards the capture and alteration
of complete, live human beings. The alcoves I mentioned in my proposal
are still mysterious, but going by the wear patterns on the floors they
seem to be used to store some kind of heavy alien robot or cargo
equipped with tank treads. Heavy harnesses drop down from the ceiling to
hold these robots in place during flight, and the alcoves seem to have
some type of air-drop mechanism as well.

It's difficult to speculate exactly what exactly goes on in these UFOs
with regards to captured civilians. Clearly it has something to do with
the alien harvesting of human biomass, but they already have craft for
that which do not appear to be in any way obsolete. Instead we have to
suspect that the Corrupter represents a paradigm shift in alien activity
on Earth. Something has changed. Until we fully understand what's
happening, we need to prepare ourselves for what could be the worst
threat to the global population we've ever seen.

In the air the Corrupter's performance is relatively poor, being slow
and sluggish compared to other UFOs, but from our observations it
appears to be heavily escorted and presents a major ground threat due to
its large crew complement and on-board heavy weapons. More than any
other craft we've encountered, the Corrupter is purpose-built to deliver
large alien forces to the surface solely to attack civilians.

Commander, it's painfully obvious that we need to shoot these things
down whenever and wherever we see them. If we don't, it's going to
result in the wholesale slaughter of innocent people and possibly even
scenes worse than Mumbai and Bonn.

We have to stop that from happening at all costs.

--Cdr. Navarre

[300px](image:Ufo_corrupter.jpg "wikilink")