## Technical Specifications: P-12 Pistol

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

With the return of armour to the battlefield, starting with steel
helmets in World War 1 and fragmentation vests in Vietnam, pistols have
had a harder and harder time keeping up. Due to their far lower muzzle
velocity compared to longer-barreled and/or fully automatic weapons,
they've had increasing trouble penetrating the new, ever-higher
standards of human armour -- much less advanced alien composites. The
very concept of the pistol in military use came under fire at one point
in the 21st century, and was saved only by the advent of
super-high-velocity powder.

Chief among the new generation of super-pistols is the Dolvich DV762
from Russia. It follows the design philosophy of its home country;
rugged, reliable power without frills. Its design is extremely basic,
and though the materials used in its construction are far stronger to
cope with the new powder, the DV762's internals are no more advanced
than any pistol of the late 20th century.

The DV762 does not compromise. It isn't a multi-function firearm. It's
designed for only one thing: to punch through armour and kill the person
inside. In order to do this, the DV fires the ancient 7.62mm Tokarev
pistol round, either on semi-automatic or three-round burst mode, from a
12-round detachable box magazine. The Tokarev round is known for its
excellent penetration, and it has been significantly upgraded on its
return to military service. This pistol can shoot clean through the side
of a modern ballistic helmet at ranges of up to 10 metres -- and then
out the other side.

Unfortunately, in order to achieve penetration, the DV sacrifices
stopping power. The 7.62mm round makes a very clean hole in the enemy,
which is the problem; it's very reluctant to fragment or tumble,
requiring a direct hit on a vital organ or major artery to incapacitate
or kill an enemy.

For the purposes of the Excalibur program, we concluded that a
guaranteed minor hit is better than one that may simply bounce off an
alien's armour, especially as we have yet to gain a clear picture of how
nasty alien armour can get. We need sidearms that we know will be
effective in the crunch, and the DV762 is the best of them.

For PHALANX use, we have given this pistol the classification P-12.

### Recommended Doctrine

The P-12 is primarily a backup weapon. It is a significant step up from
the combat knife as a weapon of last resort, and it lets a soldier
respond to new close-range threats if the primary weapon is rendered
ineffective at such ranges or has run out of ammo.

Ambidextrous soldiers may even consider using two pistols at the same
time, though this will negatively impact accuracy and reduce the
soldier's already minimal effective range.

A single P-12 should rarely be considered as a primary weapon, as it is
outclassed in this role by nearly every other weapon in our arsenal. Its
advantages are the advantages of a sidearm -- small size and weight.
Still, it may find a use as a primary weapon with field medics and
technicians who do not have room for larger weapons.

### Addenda

Despite good penetration against organics, this weapon performs very
poorly against robotic targets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [7.62mm Pistol
  Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/7.62mm_Pistol_Magazine "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")