# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Power Suit

Commander, the weaponry the aliens are fielding in battle is growing
more devastating by the week. We need a soldier-support system that can
level the playing field and give our men a fighting chance. Our
workshops are unable to produce the dense nanotube weaves we discovered
in the latest samples of alien armour. Even if we were able to produce
them, our men couldn't walk under their weight. But this doesn't mean we
won't find a solution.

With your permission, I'd like to task our team to investigate a powered
armour that would allow us to support heavier nanocomposite plates by
building weight support into the suit. Powered armour has seen use in
recent conflicts, but current-generation military variants have more in
common with tanks than infantry and can't possibly meet our mobility and
space requirements. We believe the insights we've gained from studying
the servos of the latest alien armour can be used to develop a power
suit that is leaner and tougher than anything we've seen.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Power Suit

Commander, we've successfully prototyped our new powered armour. The
prototype is waiting in R&D if you'd like to have a go in it yourself.

Our production design is geared towards maximum protection. It is, in a
nutshell, an airtight suit of armour with servo-assisted joints and an
on-board control system. The outer skin is a flexible three-layer
composite, with outer layers consisting of nanotube-fullerene fabric,
and an inner layer of special polymer gel, mixed with Wolfram-Molybdene
powder. When the outer layer of the composite is burned, the gel
evaporates instantly, dissipating the heat, and the metal powder will
create a cloud around the damaged area, thus creating a local bloom
effect that will consume much of the energy.

The inside consists of a thick layer of memory gel covered by an
electrically sensitive lining. The gel allows the suit to be fitted to a
range of heights and body shapes, so hopefully we shouldn't have to
custom-build every suit to fit one specific soldier. The inner lining is
an important part of the control system; it detects nerve impulses
through the wearer's skin, interprets these signals, and uses them to
predict the wearer's movements before they're made. This allows the suit
to move simultaneously with the body rather than resisting the user's
movements.

A useful side effect of the memory gel is that it can absorb explosive
force, providing better shelter to explosive effects than any of our
previous models. The suit's breathing apparatuses will also protect the
wearer against air contaminents.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` Alien Medium Armour`
` Heavy Needler`
` Plasma Blaster`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Armour](Category:Armour "wikilink")