# UFOpaedia Entry

## Förslag

**TILL:** Baskommendör, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FRÅN:** Doktor Connor, Forskning och utveckling:
Smittskyddsavdelningen, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**DATUM:** %02i %s %i

**ÄMNE:** Förslag: Utomjordisk Obduktion -- Taman

Kommendör,

Vi har bärgat ett nytt utomjordiskt lik från slagfältet. Vi borde börja
med dissekering och utvärdering snarast möjligt.

Vänligen,

Doktor Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Taman

Commander,

My team and I have completed our autopsy of the 'grey' body we
recovered. Here is my summary of our findings.

When Commonwealth troops first arrived in Mumbai, confused and
apprehensive, they were swarmed by crowds of screaming locals, terrified
out of their minds and desperate for protection. Most of the soldiers
didn't even speak the language, unable to understand what was said. When
they asked what was wrong, the civilians simply cried, "xuRta AwmA" --
the Hindi term for 'evil spirit' or 'demon'.

Under fire, the term quickly shortened to "Taama", and by the time the
shooting was over it had further mutated. Everyone had settled on
"Taman" (pronounced 'tah-man') as the word that described the grey
nightmares that had slaughtered them. The name still remains, but we can
now say with confidence that these aliens are made of flesh and blood
rather than fire and darkness.

First and probably most interesting is the fact that this creature looks
almost human. Two arms, two legs, a torso and a head; bipedal
locomotion; visual, olfactory and auditory organs all in the same
general location. The subject's hands and feet have three long digits,
one of which (the 'thumb') is opposable. This species is on average
shorter than humans and possesses a thin, almost delicate frame which
belies their toughness.

The subject has a very simple set of vital organs; heart, lungs, liver,
and so on. It lacks most of the redundant or obsolete organs that humans
have carried through our evolutionary history. Biologically, the most
interesting part of the subject's internals is the digestive tract. The
creature has a total of three stomachs meant for the digestion of very
tough plant matter. It is incapable of digesting meat of any kind. This
implies that, wherever they come from, the Tamans are herbivores feeding
on some kind of plant life. This finding has comforted some of our more
excitable staff. At least we know the aliens aren't harvesting us for
our meat.

The large, overdeveloped eyes equip the Taman with natural night-vision.
It has special irises that protect the retinas from bright light such as
sunlight, but if a sudden blast of highly intense illumination were to
hit the retina before the iris can adjust, it could cause prolonged or
even permanent blindness. Our flashbang may be highly effective here.

The greyness of the skin is a particularly curious feature. It is
actually caused by the secretion of trace amounts of silicon, which
hardens over the supple inner skin to provide a kind of natural armour.
This makes a Taman fairly resistant to impact and heat.

From our analysis, we can conclude the following:

-- The Tamans have a natural resistance to bullets and blunt trauma, but
not enough to render such weapons combat ineffective.

-- Their skin easily disperses small to medium amounts of heat, but
prolonged exposure to a flamethrower or incendiary compound will still
do the trick. Lasers will do slightly less damage than normal.

-- Though the body is limber and elastic, the Taman's internal organs
are badly protected against concussion, which makes them particularly
vulnerable to the shockwaves of explosive ordnance.

Further study has ruled out other wild-eyed theories. Though the Tamans'
appearance is very similar to that of humans, almost enough to imply a
kind of relationship, they seem to be more a case of convergent
evolution (two different paths to a similar end result) than a blood
relation. There are very few similarities between the Taman gene
sequences and that of humans, and the structure of chromatin in their
DNA is several orders of magnitude more complex than ours. This seems to
preclude a hypothetical common origin.

In combat, Tamans present a significant threat. They are highly agile
and can wield a variety of weapons with great accuracy. Besides serving
as soldiers, they fill many specialist roles in the alien war machine,
positions in which Tamans seem to be the most numerous. Complex weapons
and advanced armour are more often wielded by Tamans than any other
species. This is most likely due to their large brains, sensory organs
and delicate manipulators.

Whether or not the Tamans are the 'greys' of old UFO abduction stories,
I couldn't say, but it seems extremely unlikely. PHALANX has never been
able to verify a single report of alien activity since the 1950s. The
UFOs we're seeing now are certainly not flying saucers. If they could've
invaded Earth a century ago, why wait until now to do it? It doesn't
really add up -- but then, who can know the motivations of an alien
mind?

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Taman corpse`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Alien Breathing Apparatus`](Research/Alien_Breathing_Apparatus "wikilink")` (if not yet opened; can also be opened by`
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok`](Aliens/Ortnok "wikilink")` or `[`Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar`](Aliens/Shevaar "wikilink")`)`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")