## Technical Specifications: AR-80 Assault Rifle

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The French LeBlanc FAA-191 (Fusil Assaut Automatique) provides the most
advantageous mix of range, penetration against alien armour, and
magazine size in the assault rifle class. It is a bullpup design,
meaning the magazine and action of the weapon are located behind the
grip to reduce overall weapon length. The 191 fires a 30-round box
magazine of 4.7mm caseless ammunition, tungsten-cored steel penetrators
with impressive armour-piercing capability over short and medium ranges.
The round does not perform well at long range, but then assault rifles
aren't meant for long-range firefights.

Though the design is far from new, first prototyped in 2057, no other
rifle has fully surpassed the 191. It is accurate and quick to reload.
Its rugged construction makes it dependable in combat and unlikely to
break or jam. It is resistant to heat, cold, dust and humidity all at
once. Ammunition and replacement parts are widely available due to the
design's maturity and relative popularity among Earth's armed forces.
This is a rifle you can entrust your life to.

For PHALANX use, we have given this rifle the classification AR-80.

### Recommended Doctrine

This should be our go-to weapon for medium-range engagements. It can lay
down an impressive amount of fire and is deadly out to far longer ranges
than any pistol or SMG.

However, no one should entertain the illusion that the assault rifle is
the end-all be-all of our arsenal. A balance of weapons is required for
us to be able to deal with different situations; while the assault rifle
remains a good weapon at close range, it can be slow to manoeuvre in
tight spaces and is eclipsed by both submachine guns and shotguns at
these ranges, weapons which provide a far greater point-blank punch. Any
sweep of an urban building should be led by close-range weapons, while
rifle-equipped soldiers either secure the perimeter or form a second
assault wave to support the others.

If our rifle-equipped troops are caught beyond effective weapon range,
they should make an advance from cover to cover in order to effectively
bring their weapons to bear. Snipers should provide covering fire for
the advancing teams or attempt to take out the enemy at range.

### Addenda

While the AR-80 is a fine rifle in all respects, it was not designed to
fight an alien invasion force. We should develop our own purpose-built
weapons as soon as it becomes feasible to do so.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")

## Links

- [Assault Rifle
  Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/Assault_Rifle_Magazine "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")