## Technical Specifications: HE Rocket

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a 120mm solid-fuel rocket fitted with a High-Explosive warhead.
It is fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's
barrel. The fuel is highly stable and resists concussion and heat,
though it can cook off if exposed to high temperatures for a significant
period of time. The warhead itself is completely inert unless armed by
the impact trigger. Fire cannot set it off unless and until it's armed.
Like C4 explosive, the unarmed compound inside the warhead will burn
rather than explode when exposed to heat or open flame.

Because it carries no onboard electronics, the rocket is impervious to
EMP and electronic jamming. All high-tech aiming is done at the
launcher. Therefore a properly-aimed rocket will arrive at its target
regardless of anything that might happen during flight.

The rocket is meant to be loaded into an HPML Rocket Launcher.

### Recommended Doctrine

All soldiers equipped with rocket launchers should carry at least one
reload whenever they go out in the field. Two or more are strongly
recommended. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without
sufficient ammunition.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")