# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Electromagnetic Rifle

Commander, we've received a number of research files from several UN
nations concerning research and development for man-portable
electromagnetic weaponry; various designs have been proposed and even
prototyped for railguns, coilguns and quench guns. Of course, all these
experiments have failed, since electromagnetic weapons require huge
amounts of power -- and therefore banks of capacitors so heavy that no
human soldier could possibly carry them. Even atomic batteries have not
given us the power output we need to make man-portable electromagnetic
guns a reality. It is impossible.

At least, that's what we thought, until the aliens showed up.

Seeing alien craft hurtling through our skies, advanced robots scuttling
through our streets, and high-powered energy weapons tearing up our
people has given us a whole host of new ideas. It has also caused us to
take a very close look through our collected UN research data. It's
nothing short of a gold mine in disguise. By combining the best of these
individual cluttered pieces, we believe we may be able to devise a new
weapon for our tactical teams that will be both man-portable and
combat-effective. This weapon would have extreme range and power and may
serve us well in the days ahead.

This idea holds a lot of promise, Commander. We would like your
authorisation for lab time and funding in order finally make
electromagnetic weaponry a reality.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Electromagnetic Rifle

The EM rifle project has been a resounding success! For the first time
in human history, we've created a viable man-portable electromagnetic
weapon. We have named our weapon the Bolter Rifle to avoid ambiguity
with other existing MAG (Magnetic Accelerator Gun) implementations. I'll
do my best to explain its operation in this short summary.

The Bolter Rifle is equipped with a railgun configuration, as opposed to
a coilgun/Gauss gun configuration, due to the high inefficiency and
generally poor operation of coilguns. Railguns work by utilising
electromagnetic force to propel an electrically conductive projectile
along two conducting rails. The electric current flowing through the
rails sets up a magnetic field between them and through the projectile.
The direction of the magnetic field is perpendicular to the current
flowing through the rails and the projectile; this results in the rails
and projectile pushing each other, thereby accelerating the projectile
along the rails.

The world's first large-scale railgun, built in the 1970s, used 500 MJ
of stored energy from the largest homopolar generator ever built. The
electrical equipment needed to power these guns has become much more
compact in the past century or so, but it is still not small or light
enough to create man-portable weapons capable of replacing
chemical-propellant firearms. Another major failing of railguns is their
extreme susceptibility to rail erosion. The rails suffer heavy damage
from every shot fired along them, and when the contact points are badly
damaged, the electric current cannot properly pass from the rails
through the projectile. This causes successive shots to lose more and
more of their power. Each round needs at least a short length of
undamaged rail in order to build up velocity.

Fortunately, we've managed to find a way around this problem -- by
loading new rails into the gun after every series of shots.

The concept of pre-loading all of a weapon's ammunition into the barrel
has been around for a long time. Until now it has only been applied to
conventional firearms, but we have come up with a new concept; a small,
individually-powered and insulated length of rail loaded with every
round. This gives each round a viable contact point and will allow the
weapon to sustain power through all its shots. When all rounds in the
current barrel have been depleted -- and therefore the rails thoroughly
destroyed -- the soldier can simply unlock the old barrel, let it drop
to the ground, and slot in a fresh spare. Then he can replace the
battery pack for a new series of shots.

The projectiles are specially-developed 3.2x40mm finned flechettes,
stamped from large sheets of tungsten alloy. They are razor-sharp, with
excellent armour-piercing qualities, and they tumble like demons inside
the target. The holes that these flechettes cause are many times larger
than their actual size.

This choice of loading system makes the Bolter slow and clumsy to
reload, with expensive, oversized magazines (a new barrel and battery
pack for each reload) and a small ammo capacity of 4 shots per barrel.
On the other hand, the Bolter's stopping power is far greater than any
chemical firearm in our arsenal. It can be used both as a sniper rifle
and a powerful assault weapon, depending on whether it is fired on
semi-automatic or 4-round burst mode. It is a highly versatile weapon
with many possible applications; its tactical value will certainly
become apparent once we get some real combat experience with it.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink") (primary firemode)
- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink") (secondary firemode)

## Links

- [Sniper Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Sniper_Rifle "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high damage.

2\) Long range.

*Con:*

1\) Small magazine.

2\) Long reload time.

3\) High recoil.

4\) Expensive.

5\) Expensive magazines.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` None`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Bolter Rifle`
` Enables production -- Bolter Rifle Magazine`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")