# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Laser Rifle

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

The laser rifle is the flagship design of our new deuterium-fluoride
laser family. It will be a perfect marriage of power, accuracy, range,
manoeuvrability and ammo capacity. Even on paper the laser rifle's specs
can compete with any conventional assault rifle. The only problem will
be actually building it.

The components we've been using in our Continuous Wave Laser prototypes
have been cumbersome, fragile and very expensive. Our soldiers need
ruggedness in a rifle, something that will last through the bumps and
bashes of combat, and we badly need to bring down production costs to
make the program worthwhile. As it is, the price of a squad of working
laser rifles would be on par with your average main battle tank. We need
funding and lab time to bring costs down, fix or replace the most
sensitive components to make the weapon more reliable, and reduce its
form factor to something that can be comfortably fired by a human
soldier.

As always, Commander, we'll begin work as soon as you give us your
authorisation.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Laser Rifle

It's done, Commander. We are now the proud owners of a working laser
rifle, with full production plans loaded into our computers. We've
eliminated several moving parts and refined the electronics to bring
production and maintenance costs down into our budget range. I believe
you'll find the weapon's specs to your satisfaction.

It is quick to fire, has a good magazine capacity, no recoil, a
respectable range and does away with many other issues that plague
conventional firearms. It will never misfire or suffer a jammed
mechanism. It will never blow up due to a fouled or bent barrel. It will
never have problems with incompatible or faulty ammunition. It can
suffer cracked lenses if subjected to severe mistreatment, but those are
thoroughly shielded, set into shock-resistant foam and protected from
the outside by a metal iris that only opens when the weapon is ready to
fire.

This rifle is possibly the most accurate assault rifle ever designed.
It's light and rests easily in the shooter's hands. The lack of recoil
makes it great for sustained fire. A lengthy blast in Pulse mode is just
as accurate. Due to difficulties in keeping the beam on a moving target,
however, soldiers will probably experience a sense of lower accuracy in
the field. Lasers require time on target to deal damage and this
presents challenges to a soldier on the battlefield.

We've designed the rifle to use the standard deuterium-fluoride
cartridges which we've drawn up to power all of our laser weaponry. A
soldier can fire a while before a new cartridge must be inserted. The
cartridges can be popped out and left on the ground without risk of
contaminating the area, but they will require special hazard disposal
once the mission is completed.

We'll need to have at least one D-F Cartridge on hand at all times in
order to be able to load and use a laser rifle.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [laser](Damage/laser "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")

## Links

- [Assault Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Assault_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Sniper Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Sniper_Rifle "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high accuracy.

2\) Quick-firing.

3\) Good range.

*Con:*

1\) Low damage.

2\) Cannot shoot through smoke/gas/fire.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Laser Rifle`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")