Is there any hope that this is ever going to happen? It would be
unbelievably cool but understandably difficult to implement.

## Quick thought: How to make it work.

To make this fit in with the story of the game a bit more easily, not to
mention make it easier to implement, maybe the aliens that the player
controls would be a part of the hive mind deliberatly cut off from the
rest and with a certain individuality to certain parts (A part of it
that takes care of research, a part that takes care of supplies, a part
that takes care of tactics, etc and a higher part that overrules them
all) inorder to imitate PHALANX forces and counter them.

The alien campaign would naturally be started a bit 'later' in the
timeline and while Phalanx would be the main enemy maybe there could
sometimes be misunderstanding between the Player Aliens (Called PA from
now on) and the Main Force (Called MF from now on) that leads to battles
between them (Maybe three way battles sometimes with Phalanx?)

As things escalate maybe things could detoriate between the PA and the
MF with more or less the same result as the human campaign except that
naturally the PA takes control of the earth in the end (and depending on
whether the vaccine I have read about a bit on this wiki is succefully
used by Phalanx, the control can differ from unruly control through
brute force to simply the humans now being part of the PA forces)

Gameplay details about the group:

- They have two types of command centers, one single sqare one and the
  type used in the main base which takes up two squares (Called Thought
  Construct or TC from now on) but houses a biological contruct that
  serves as the part higher part mentioned above and is also what the
  player actually is in the game. (Loss of this in a defence mission
  means automatic defeat)
- The TC also serves as the PA source of 'money' as it converts things
  into raw materials (Their 'currency') in someway to allow it to be
  used for their purposes.
- The equivalent of the PHALANX mission to stop a alien attack would for
  the PA to clear out all civilians (Which could be armed/be military
  forces maybe?) aswell as any PHALANX forces and grab any materials
  that could be converted into raw materials (Which is the reward for
  completion)
- In battle the PA soldiers give eachother dodge/hit bonuses depending
  on how many of them and how well can see the enemy that is
  attacking/being attacked. This is due to the hive mind. I don't know
  if something like this is already implemented for the alien side
  ingame but it would make sense.
- The PA can naturally produce UFOs but more advanced UFOs require
  special parts that can be gotten in several ways depending on which
  part of the story the player is in.
- Other missions for the PA could include:

`* Attacking PHALANX bases with diffrent objectives such as destroying it, freeing prisoners (Which later in the game would be the only source of reinforcements along with capturing the MF aliens in battle) and retaking UFOs (Which might be in different states of disassembly from being useless except as parts to construct to being able to fly right away) and the like.`
`* Intercepting Convoys with things captured by Phalanx. This would be a source of UFOs and equipment for the PA`

Human Campaign effects: They could exist as elite (More health, more
accurate, better at tactics, etc but rarely more than one squad at a
time) opposition in the Human Campaign.

The existance of this would create a need for some special missions such
as:

- Investigate unknown battle. (The PA forces fighting the MF forces)
- Attack \[Name for PA group ingame\] base. (And a main base variation
  but it is 'heavily defended' and needs some story research to be found
  and then some sort of 'bunker buster' weapon to built (Using large
  amounts of antimatter maybe?) before the base can be attacked without
  the mission automatically failing or there being litterally endless
  amounts of enemies and unpassable doors. This 'bunker buster' and base
  assault would be part of the story. Succesfully attacking the main
  base would eliminate the PA forces and their missions along with some
  reward neccesary for research to progress through the story)
- Variations of the normal missions except the player are warned that
  the Aliens that the aliens are behaving a bit oddly/seem to be elites.
  Research might change this and tell the player that it's the PA group.

And techs with titles such as:

- Elite Alien forces. (First encounter with PA group is only against
  them/when they are fighting with MF forces)
- Alien factions? (First encounter with PA group is when they are
  already fighting MF forces)
- Elite \[Alien Race\] interogation. (The elite is a captured PA alien.
  Needs 'Elite Alien Forces' to be researched so they know what they are
  getting into as the Alien is obviously diffrent)
- Unknown Faction \[Alien Race\] interogation. (The 'Alien Factions?'
  counterpart to the above)

That is all for now but I might add more later. [RF](User:RF "wikilink")
20:16, 21 March 2009 (UTC)