## Blueprints -- Missile Battery

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 18 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Missiles have gotten more and more dangerous since World War 2, while
countermeasure technologies have only been becoming effective since the
start of the 21st century. In a contest between attack and defence, the
attacker has always had the advantage. However, this has not deterred
the aliens from developing defences to blow our minds.

As an example, GEU forces have engaged alien craft with SAMs
(Surface-to-Air Missiles) in the skies above Bonn. Forty missiles were
launched from batteries across Europe while they had radar lock on two
of the alien craft. Later, nearby infantry units fired between twelve
and fifteen shoulder-mounted anti-air weapons.

The number of hits scored? One. Just one. The UFO suffered a minor drop
in acceleration during its landing at Bonn and later took off again
without a hitch.

The conclusions are obvious: alien EW (Electronic Warfare) capability is
miles in advance of our own. However, we at PHALANX have made a thorough
study of the sole hit scored, and it was not a matter of luck. What
happened is that the UFO exposed itself at a less stealthy angle while
dodging other incoming munitions, allowing the missile to hold lock all
the way to its target.

This proves that the aliens are not invulnerable to our missiles. We
simply need the best ones for the job. These realisations have led us to
adapt some old missile battery plans and reequip them with brand-new
launchers. Our results are promising.

The battery consists of 4 launchers that 'pop up' to the surface when
engaging a target. Each launcher carries 20 of the AA51 "Cicada" SAM.
This is the most advanced missile on Earth, packing more electronics
than an airliner, designed to knock enemy aircraft right out of the sky
regardless of how fast they're going. There is no better emergency
defence weapon on the planet at the time of this writing.

Against alien craft, the "Cicada"'s chances to hit will still be low,
but in sufficient numbers it will hurt them. The missile and its
electronics suite are of course highly expensive, well outside our
budget range in the numbers required to succesfully engage incoming
UFOs. Fortunately the UN has agreed to supply us all standard SAMs from
its own strategic reserves at no cost to us.

### Recommended Doctrine

If built at one of our bases, the missile battery can be ordered to
engage any UFO in range or wait until a UFO is identified as preparing
to attack the base in question. This decision is up to the Base
Commander. Assisting our interceptors by 'softening up' a UFO with SAMs
would help take some of the pressure off our pilots and aircraft, but
there is simply no way to completely hide our missile launches despite
our best attempts to camouflage them. Repeated large-scale launches will
give away our position sooner or later.

The missile battery will be at moderate risk during a base attack. It is
designed to prevent base attacks; if one has gotten through, it should
no longer matter to the current attackers unless they're paving the way
for a follow-up. It may be a tempting target of opportunity, however,
because while our missiles are well-protected they will detonate if
subjected to enough abuse. An explosion in the missile battery could
have disastrous effects on the facility and the base at large.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also: [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")