# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: The Alien Strategy

Good morning, Sir.

I'm afraid this isn't a social message; I'm writing you because of our
pressing need for more information. We at DivIntel have been doing our
part with tracking, logging and double-checking all reported alien
activity on Earth, but we're increasingly being faced with our lack of
data about the overarching goals of the alien invasion. We have no means
of anticipating the aliens' next move because we have no clue as to what
game plan they're following. That's why I am submitting a new project
for your authorisation.

I intend to analyse more closely the patterns of alien activity on
Earth, the intended missions and targets of UFO incursions into our
airspace, and some of the finer details of our own research documents
regarding the alien creatures and their technology. The bits and pieces
of intelligence we've gathered so far are just pieces of a puzzle, but
right now we have no clue how they fit together. The continual low-key
incursions, the mysteries of the alien hive mind, the harvesting of
human material . . . Somewhere in there lie the answers we need to
unravel the aliens' overall goals and strategy for Earth and for
humanity. If we can just put all the pieces together, we'll finally be
able to see the bigger picture, as frightening as it may be.

Naturally this project will require a certain amount of lab time and
funding to build up a complete picture. It shouldn't set back our other
research too much, and it will be an important part of formatulating
new, more effective counterstrategies to the alien invasion.

The proposal is in your queue, Sir. Please write back when you'd like us
to start work.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: The Alien Strategy

Good morning, Sir.

I've got an extensive report for you regarding our work on deciphering
the patterns of alien activity and their overall strategy for Earth. You
can find the full document in our archives, but I will give you a quick
summation here.

The most striking characteristic we've seen of the invasion is that the
aliens have been harvesting human biomass, sometimes even whole people,
for their own nebulous purposes. They do this in a rather gruesome
manner that shows no respect for life; their Kerrblades cut up human
beings as if butchering cattle, and their Bloodspiders will simply
dissect someone on the spot for a particularly interesting organ or a
pint of blood. It is utterly, amorally practical.

We can only assume that they use the samples they're gathering in some
kind of research program, studies into our physiology and perhaps our
psychology and culture as well. We don't know the reasons behind this,
but it's an interesting point. They are trying to learn something about
us, and they don't care how we feel about it. To them, we're merely
objects to be studied.

Of further interest are their main targets. Until recently alien
activity reports came almost exclusively from high-density population
centres with easy landing access for UFOs, which ties in with the
general objective of capturing human research material. However, as of
late the focus of the campaign seems to have shifted or narrowed.
Activity around hospitals, blood banks and bio-research laboratories has
been noticed more and more frequently in addition to the usual raids on
population centres. The activity has ranged from low-key infiltration
for unknown purposes up to full-scale assaults on high-security labs.
We're not sure yet what this shift could mean, but we are making
recommendations to the UN to sharpen security in these facilities and
arm local forces to stand up to alien attack. We've marked up a list of
high-risk targets for rapid police response and are distributing
handbooks on anti-alien tactics. More investigation into the change of
targets is underway.

As always, there is a lot more alien activity going on outside of our
detection range which goes unreported by civilian authorities. DivIntel
is currently experimenting with new ways of reporting and responding to
alien activity as well as better networking between UN nations to get
valid information to PHALANX faster, all of which are direct results of
our research into the aliens' strategy. We expect that these techniques
will allow us to catch an estimated 10% of alien activity (out of total
estimated activity on Earth) that would have previously gone unreported.

We've also looked into how UFOs are getting to and from Earth, despite
our problems finding and tracking the elusive larger craft we've
observed. After reviewing radar, lidar and video recordings made from
observatories on the planet surface, we now believe the larger UFOs to
be some manner of aircraft carrier; a simple FTL-equipped base ship
ferrying smaller UFOs to and from Earth. We've monitored up to 3 such
ships holding in Earth orbit at one time, but we have reason to believe
that the aliens possess many more and are simply not committing their
full resources to the fight.

These craft are of extreme importance and we must find some way to shoot
them down from orbit if we can. Cdr. Navarre and I are brainstorming for
ideas on this subject and I will certainly get back to you about it.

That's all we've been able to get from the sources of information
currently available to us, Sir. Obviously we need to do more research --
always more research -- and keep adapting as quickly as possible. I'm
not sure what surprises the aliens have in store for us, but this target
shift we've observed is something that could have very dark
implications.

We should keep a close guard, Commander.

With kind regards,

Col. Falkland