## Blueprints -- Workshop

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 28 January 1958

By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![Image:Workshop.png](Workshop.png "Image:Workshop.png")

The PHALANX Workshop is a small-scale production line equipped with the
most high-tech military manufacturing processes available. It is
designed for the production of classified materials and parts for which
no other facility on Earth is equipped; even the replication of
extraterrestrial technology.

All parts produced by the Workshop are machined by hand with as much
robotic assistance as possible. It requires the most highly-skilled
engineers in the world to operate its advanced machinery, and to install
new machines whenever our researchers devise a new or improved
production process. The Workshop provides working space for up to 10
engineers at once.

A Power Plant is required to keep the production line going. Without an
operational plant, all production must be halted until power is
restored. The Workshop also depends upon a Command Centre to coordinate
construction efforts.

### Recommended Doctrine

During a possible EXT war, we will be depending heavily on Workshop
facilities to manufacture the weapons we need. H.G. Wells's War of the
Worlds comes to mind for its frightening depiction of how our present
technology might fare against an invasion force. Even the A-bomb may not
be a sufficient deterrent. In a worst-case scenario we may be forced to
resort to nuclear missiles if we have no other hope of staving off the
assault.

The Workshop is a high-security area due to its sensitive, often
classified projects. The various hazardous or volatile substances used
in production make it a dangerous place to be, and it will certainly be
at risk during any base attack as a target of opportunity or even a
moderate-risk mission objective. Shutting down our production for any
length of time would be a victory for any extraterrestrial hostiles,
especially if they manage to destroy a large project in progress such as
the construction of a new aircraft.

Reproducing interplanetary spacecraft technology will be one of the
absolute necessities if we are ever to take the initiative against an
extraterrestrial force. We cannot sit on Earth maintaining a defensive
posture if we wish to put a definitive end to a military conflict. Our
faithful Workshops and Laboratories are what will arm us against these
nightmare scenarios.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")