## Blueprints -- Storage

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 26 January 1958

By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Storage.png "Storage.png")The Storage facility is the base's
repository for ammunition, weapons, and other equipment not currently in
use. All small-arms, vehicle and aircraft ammunition that is not
earmarked for emergency response resides in the Storage facility. It
also serves as a garage for our battlefield vehicles. These remain in
their bays until mission time, with fully-loaded magazines in case of a
base attack.

Cameras and alarms maintain round-the-clock vigilance to ensure no
unauthorised removals are made. All removals must be approved by the
officer on duty before the alarm is deactivated. Live ammunition and
other sensitive equipment such as alien artifacts are kept in locked
containers in the quartermaster's office behind rigorous security;
checking anything out of locked storage requires the presence of the
base quartermaster and written authorisation from the Command Centre.

All item requisitions necessary for research, production and aircraft
maintenance are handled by the appropriate officers; no input from the
Base Commander is required. Only mission equipment and battlefield
vehicles require the Commander's direct supervision.

The Storage facility can fit a maximum of 50 standard-sized pallets of
equipment. The amount of items in a pallet is relatively unimportant,
size is the main restricting factor with regards to Storage facility
space. The contents of each individual pallet are scrupulously tracked
by magnetic labels and detailed punch-card logs.

It does not depend upon any other base facilities to function.

### Recommended Doctrine

In the case of an invasion, we will need all the storage space we can
get. Large stores of ammunition may need to be squared away for long
periods of time. Recovered artifacts will need to be adequately
contained and protected, as anything with nebulous alien capabilities
should be kept in our explosion-proof lockers or be destroyed. If all
the lockers are full, we may have no choice in the matter.

During a base attack, the Storage facility would not be more than a
target of opportunity. Any sensitive equipment in the facility will most
likely be protected and require significant effort to destroy. Even the
facility itself is cheap and easy to repair. The only threat comes from
stored explosives and ammunition, which may present a risk due to the
possibility of sympathetic detonation.

Still, any extraterrestrials are unlikely to spend the time and effort
getting into our explosion-proof lockers when there are easier targets
nearby.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")