- "which achieves continuous wave output in a man-portable form"


what do you mean? the wave output is in a man-portable form? no, the
laser is

- "The practical solution did not lie in trying to create bigger battery
  packs, but rather using radical miniaturisation technologies to
  lighten and scale down some heavy-duty laser cannon components."


Even today there is NO problem with creating small, hand-portable high
energy lasers. The problem is with power source for them. So
miniaturization of other things does not really help here.

- "The deuterium reacts with the fluorine, producing excited molecules
  of deuterium fluoride."


hydrogen fluoride(HF) (and also deuterium fluoride(DF), as deuterium is
an isotope of hydrogen) is HIGHLY toxic substantion

in today's world HF and DF lasers are rather big installations where
exhaust of DF or HF substantions is far away from people using these
lasers so the crew won't get contaminated; i somehow find lack of
explanations what is going on with DF substantion after reaction in our
portable lasers

- The DF is the right choice for our storyline, because it can work with
  high effectiveness in atmosphere, the opposite as HF; the point is DF
  requires larger optical surfaces to shape and focus the beam, and i
  think here is the place for
  miniaturisation--[Zenerka](User:Zenerka "wikilink") 14:41, 19 January
  2007 (CET)

<!-- -->

- "*The laser operates on mid-infrared wavelengths, so it produces no
  visible beam except to those wearing IR goggles.*"
  - How shall we port this into the battlescape? Currently laser weapons
    in battlescape have a visible beam. Agreeing with the 'invisible'
    part from a physical view-point, the only ways i see is to either
    remove the beam graphics and only display "hit" graphics (some sort
    of heating up in hte target area) or to just assume the "commander"
    (i.e. the player) has some sort visualization-tool to make them
    visible (it's a tactical interface after all.)
    --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 18:41, 19 January 2007 (CET)
    - I think people would be delighted enough if we actually made an
      accurate representation of how a laser would look (i.e. a beam
      that travels instantly from gun to target, stays on target a
      while, and then disappears instantly) without needing to explain
      why the player is able to see it on the tactical interface.
      --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 00:18, 20 January 2007 (CET)