## Ideas

The following is a list of ideas for traits from the forums. I have
copied just the ideas that might work for implants. Names probably need
to be changed in some circumstances.
<http://ufoai.org/forum/index.php/topic,6661.0.html>

**Talented \[weapon name\] operator** Boost to the hit chance with one
particular weapon (only if the weapon has been researched). At later
game, you might get rookies with bonuses to newer weapons (since they've
heard rumors of them and they can't wait to try them out), while you'd
still have those seasoned machine gunners and such, adding flavor to the
mix.

**Medic** Unusually skilled medic sometimes gets more healing done with
the same amount of TUs. This chance goes up over time as the medic gains
battle experience.

**Alert gunner** Slight bonus to the hit chance when doing reaction
fire. Slight bonus to the chance of doing reaction fire. Weapon is fired
only if the hit chance is 70% or above, or whatever. Or possibly the
trait triggers when an alien is just about to fire. Hit chances and
reaction fire chances are increased when soldier is confirmed to have
the perk.

**Fast aim** Aliens have harder time interrupting a soldier who can wave
his gun as if it were a pencil.

**Quarterback** Slightly increased throwing range and accuracy. Bonus
gets bigger once the soldier is confirmed to have the trait.

**Sniper** Option to spend more TUs to do an extra-aimed shot with
select few weapons. With increased accuracy, of course.

**Die hard** Generally more damage resistant than others. Faster health
stat growth.

**Courageous under pressure** Bonus to all skills during base defence
missions.

**Recon specialist** Lowered AP cost for infrared goggles as soon as the
trait is discovered.

## Proposed Research Text: Physiological Implants

### Proposal

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Proposal: Bio Samples / Corrupter

Commander,

The disassembled Corrupter vessel appears to have been little more than
a flying biology lab. In addition to upgrading our lab equipment with
captured alien devices, we've also acquired a number of human and alien
samples. If we could have the time and funding, we could get a better
grasp of what the aliens have in store for us.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

### Completed

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Research Complete: Bio Samples / Corrupter

Commander,

It appears that we were laboring under a set of misapprehensions. The
first was that the specimens in question were dead, or at least
biologically inert. As we adapted to the alien systems we learned how to
revive them. Few of the humans were coherent, but we've managed to piece
together enough to figure out what was happening, if not why.

The second misapprehension was about the inhuman specimens. As it turned
out, there weren't any. Despite tissue densities never seen on Earth
before the invasion, none of the samples that we tested were anything
other than genetically human. We're not sure why the aliens have
developed what is, for lack of a better term, a form of super-soldier
serum, but it far surpasses anything we've made for the same purpose.

It's not without its side effects. In extreme dosages, subjects suffer
from significant cognitive impairment. Intriguingly, the aliens were
thorough enough in their research that we not only have the formula, we
have a counter-formula as well - one which produces an entirely opposing
effect, boosting mental function at the cost of physical abilities.

We've completed our analysis of both drugs, and come to the conclusion
that they're safe to use on PHALANX personnel, if not without drawbacks.
An unexpected side effect appears to be that - with either drug - the
immune system becomes more aggressive, increasing the odds of cybernetic
rejection. Limiting augmentation of anyone on such a drug regimen would
be wise.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor