Maybe human psionics should also be able to reinforce their teammates
(those using psi implants instead of headwear) suffering from lashout?
This could be named mind-shield ;) .

Addendum to proposal: The lore describes the Psionic link being weakened
by there being fewer aliens, and strengthened by greater number of
aliens in an area. A proposal to have this mechanic in game.

Essentially, part of the probability calculation for the success of
psionic attacks would be based on the current number of aliens on the
battle field. Lower success with a greater number of aliens, and higher
for vice versa. Potentially a dramatic increase in successful psionic
attacks once the number of aliens on the map has reached 1-2. The main
purpose of this proposed mechanic would allow for a method for
inexperienced psionic humans to gain experience, even later in the game
when alien psionics have strengthened.

## Integration

We also need some ideas about the hud and battlescape integration. As
this is an implant, it's a normal weapon definition with a new attack
type.

- where (which container) must the implant be equipped to? a new implant
  container?
  - I thought implants were to be "installed" in the hospital. I don't
    think they should be easily added/removed like other equipment.
    --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 20:58, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
    - yes - but it's still something like a container - just the in/out
      conditions are a little bit different imo.
      --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 22:05, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
- should it get a separate button like the ir-goggles? (or should we add
  a different management for headgear (now that we have at least two of
  them \[the external psi device\])?)
  - I think it needs a separate button on the HUD with all the fire
    options and maybe some status information.
    --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 20:58, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
- should the psi related stats (psi-level, mind level, ...) get printed
  in the bio signal window if the user has a psi device implanted? or do
  we need a new window?
  - Why do we need a separate psi-level stat? Isn't mind enough?
    --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 20:58, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
    - You are right - mind is enough. --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink")
      22:05, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
- how should we display the psi "fire"-animation?
- how should actors be marked that are in some way under psi?
  - More importantly, I think we need some kind of battlescape log. This
    proposal is a pretty complicated set of mechanics and a lot of it
    has no visual way to reliably indicate what is happening
    (particularly all the lashout stuff). We will need some way of
    looking over the alien turn to see what exactly happened.
    --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 20:58, 20 January 2013 (SAST)
  - A particle over the actors heads might be enough for this (like
    being stunned) - also if an actor is under control by aliens the
    team buttons to activate this actor can have a different color.
    --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 22:05, 20 January 2013 (SAST)

## Original Proposal

Below is the original proposal from Touchluck, used as the basis for the
current proposal.

Since aliens are connected together via a psionic link through the
[XVI](XVI "wikilink"), so after enough research into
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") and how it works, humans should be able to tap
into the [XVI](XVI "wikilink") net to counter the effects of
[XVI](XVI "wikilink").

## How would psionics work?

When not using psionics actively, uninfected and
[unimplanted](Proposals/Implants "wikilink") human hosts should be
completely immune to psionics -- in other words, no Ethereals or
Sectoids taking over PHALANX troops. While this sounds easy, there is a
hook attached: after switching from passive psionics into an active
attack, the [XVI](XVI "wikilink") would be able to respond by lashing
out at the attacker, reflecting the attacks back at the psionic, or even
escalating them to a higher level. A
[psi-implanted](Proposals/Implants "wikilink") psionicist may be at risk
from high ranking aliens (maybe only from Tamans). Furthermore, after
noticing that there are human psionicists, the [XVI](XVI "wikilink")
would attempt to protect itself better against them and develop new ways
of protection. Of course, psionicists would improve as well, and more
powerful ones would be able to attack much more reliably, even achieving
a higher level effect with a low level attack. Isolated aliens away from
their craft are basically helpless against the attack. When in a tight
group, especially when close to their craft, they have an automatic
ability of psionic linking, with redundant and more powerful links. All
attacks can be made more than once per turn, assuming the attacker has
enough TUs.

## Psi modules

Soldiers attempting psi must have free hands as they can lose control of
them when attempting psionics (of course they may have a weapon
holstered). There can be two types of psi modules -- external and
[implanted](Proposals/Implants "wikilink").
[Implanted](Proposals/Implants "wikilink") modules are vastly more
powerful, but can be turned on and off by the psionicist only (and the
aliens, if they manage to break in -- the psionicist is at potential
risk when facing very powerful aliens), and are more susceptible to
alien responses. External modules (maybe realised as headgear) can be
turned off by other people and are less susceptible to alien attacks,
but also less powerful. Both can be used in unison, giving the attacker
their combined power, but even after turning off the external module by
someone else, the psionicist will still be under alien lashout.

## Various types of psionic attacks

I would imagine Psionics to work in at least six possible ways, based on
the difficulty of trying the attack and the danger to the user.

### Read link

While not really an attack, its effect relies on the psionicist's power.
Weak attackers might not get any reading, or only get some basic
information about the alien. More powerful attackers could be able to
gain the number, or even types of aliens on the map. The most powerful
ones could create a complete link map, and being able to see the other
aliens' exact locations. Because it is not an attack,
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") is completely oblivious to reading links and
cannot protect itself against it other than passively. This attack
should cost some TUs, and more powerful psionics might have an option to
spend more TUs to do a more thorough reading (maybe reserving TUs from
the next turn to maintain the link map?).

### Degrade link

The most basic attack causes the [XVI](XVI "wikilink") in the alien to
have a degraded connection to the alien hive mind. The alien would
become unpredictable and its behavior erratic. It might stand around
doing nothing, it might drop the weapon or shoot it at random, it might
start acting on its lower urges, it might still be connected to the
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") net, but the link would become weaker and the
alien would be driven by suggestions rather than outright direct
control, or the link would start breaking so the alien would spend part
of its time units on being controlled and another part on doing nothing.
The initiator would simply attack the psionic link without establishing
any sustained connection, so [XVI](XVI "wikilink") would have no chance
of counterattacking. On the downside, there would be no way on whether
the attack succeeded or not, and if it succeeded, what effect did it
achieve. On a scale of 0-10, where 0 means absolutely no connection with
the [XVI](XVI "wikilink") network and 10 means a complete connection, it
would cause the connection to drop a few points, but with an unknown
value (which would be recovered on a per turn basis). This attack should
be easy, cost a fixed amount of few TUs, and should carry a concrete
loss of alien coordination. Of course it would be detectable by aliens,
although without an ability to neither fully pinpoint the cause nor
easily or quickly relinking the lost link. More powerful psionics should
even be able to cause a link break if the attack is proficient enough.

### Break link

Basically, if successful, the attack will result in a system shock of
varying severity. This will cause its muscles to relax, might lead to a
possibility of a cardiac arrest and/or loss of respiration, and the
alien will drop to the ground, catatonic. After a few turns, if the link
has not been reestablished, the alien may wake up and wander around
aimlessly. The initiator attacks the link directly attempting to strain
it to the point of breaking, and [XVI](XVI "wikilink") has a chance of
protecting itself (powerful psionicists should rather use degrade link),
by bending or redirecting the link. Bending the link causes it to
degrade, but not break. When the alien is in a group, redirecting the
link causes the link to be rerouted through other aliens, causing the
attack to fail outright. Lashing out is possible when the alien is in a
group and the attack is too weak -- the attack causes the psionicist to
be vulnerable to lashing out. While being more difficult to accomplish
than a degrade, a break results in a complete loss of all 10 points on
the link scale. A mid-level psionicists should be able to achieve a
break even when only able to cause a 4-5 point degrade. The psionicist
will lose an amount of TUs proportional to the difficulty of breaking
the link (proficient psionicists will lose less).

### Mind blank

The objective of this attack is to cause the alien network to be unable
to recreate the link to the alien host after the link has already been
broken, or attempt to break the link and then blank it. After
succeeding, the aliens will not be able to seize control of that host
for the entire combat. The attack carries some risk of backlash from the
host's [XVI](XVI "wikilink") when the link to the network has already
been lost, and the risks associated with the previous attack if the link
has not been broken or weakened yet. TU cost should be proportional to
the difficulty (blank cost+break cost if applicable). More powerful
psionicists would be able to blank the link easily with a single attack,
but less powerful ones would be required to spend some TUs on
maintaining the blank, up to the point of losing all TUs if necessary.

### Poison link

This is a more sophisticated attack. It does not attempt to break the
link, but rather act as a middle party between the alien and the
network. This might cause the alien network to see other aliens as
humans, humans as aliens, cause your soldiers and/or civilians to
disappear, etc. In the other direction, the alien might be instructed to
shoot an enemy, but due to the attack, it would cause the alien to miss,
even though the gun would seem to be right on target to the alien
network. Grenades instructed to be activated and thrown would not be
activated, but completely harmless, or would be activated, but dropped.
The initiator would have to tap the psionic link, and inject him- or
herself as the middle party either through certain suggestions or
outright rerouting. This type of attack attempts to be completely
transparent, so chances of detection are low (the initiator can be
instructed to not to try breaking in the hard way). But even breaking in
the hard way, if done right, can remain undetected. On the flip side, if
using suggestions it's not easy to tell whether the attack was
successful or not, and whether, for example, the alien missed because of
the poisoned link or because of natural reasons. When breaking in the
hard way, the psionic is always sure whether the attack succeeded, but
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") can detect that and lash out. This attack is more
difficult and should come in three power variants: suggestion, hard way
suggestion and hard way direct. The first two require some attention
from the attacker (thus requiring more TUs), but if the third is
successful, it should cause a complete loss of TUs (direct and complete
control of the link is exhausting). If the hard direct way is ultimately
unsuccessful, it should cause the unit to lose an amount of TUs
proportional to the time spent on breaking into the link.

### Mind control

The objective of this attack is to take over control of the alien. The
risks here are the most powerful. After establishing a link, it requires
a lot of power to maintain it and less powerful psionicists might even
be unable to tell whether they are the controllers or the controlled.
Every psionicist may attempt to break contact as necessary, unless
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") has assumed control of the psionicist.
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") will protect itself against mind control, and
unlike other attacks, it will get extra attempts with time. This attack
is more or less a formality on a blanked or broken link. The difference
lies in whether the aliens will be able to regain link to the
mind-controlled alien or not. If the alien has been blanked, they will
be unable to do so. But if the link has only been broken, the network
will slowly regain connection (more powerful psionicists should be able
to notice it). A blank can and should be attempted later (by the
controlling psionicist or any other). A successful mind control will not
cause a catatonic alien to stand up, and the attempt will result in
losing TUs regardless. When attempted against a linked or link-degraded
alien, it allows the player to take control of the enemy with its full
armament (assuming link degradation didn't cause it to drop its
weaponry). Its difficulty scales with link quality and is most difficult
(but nevertheless possible) when attempted against a full link. It first
attempts to break the link, and if it is successful, it will attempt
mind control to prevent system shock. This attack requires the
controller to lose all of his or her TUs on a successful mind control,
but when in control, they get TUs of the controlled alien, and a portion
of those TUs may be spent on psionic attacks against other aliens
(except mind control, of course) or easier attacks against the
controlled host (mind blank can be attempted on the host).

## Unsuccessful attempts and risks they carry

Using psionics causes the attacker to enter the same mind level as
aliens share, thus exposing him- or herself to identical attacks on part
of the aliens. Almost every psionic attack attempt carries a risk of
being countered by the aliens. The more powerful the psionicist is, the
less affected he or she will be, up to a point where a response is below
the psionicist's threshold and thus completely unscucessful.

### Breakout

Basically, a breakout occurs when mind control is unsuccessful or when
it is broken later either by the alien network regaining control or by
death or unconsciousness of the controlled host. The controller becomes
disoriented at the sudden unexpected change of his or her location, and
may become distressed. Losing control as a result of the host dying or
losing consciousness is similar to waking from a nightmare -- it may or
may not cause shock, even up to unconsciousness or insanity.

### Lashout

In psionic mode, the attacker becomes susceptible to psi attacks. When
an attempted attack is unsuccessful, the aliens may lash out at the
attacker. A lashout will attempt to recreate the effect the attacker has
attempted. When the attacker attempted a link break, he or she may
become disoriented, up to the point of becoming incoherent for some
time, or even losing consciousness (severity will vary from fainting to
an outright coma). When the attacker attempted a blank, the host's
[XVI](XVI "wikilink") may cause effects similar to the ones above and an
especially dreadful attack, where the [XVI](XVI "wikilink") in the host
attempts to attach itself to the mind of the attacker in lieu of the
lost connection to the alien network. This will resemble a successful
mind blank, but the psionicist will be unable to break out of the
attack, hence losing all TUs every turn and being slowly drawn towards
insanity (death of host halts the lashout instantly). When the
psionicist attempted a poison, the alien network might lash out by
launching suggestions of its own against the attacker (inducing panic,
where the psionicist might draw a pistol from the holster and start
shooting people around him because he believes they are aliens). If the
attacker attempted mind control, he or she might get controlled right
back.

### Escalation

A particularly violent lashout, prevalent against weak psionicists
attempting to attack a high ranking alien. When a lashout was
successful, the XVI might attempt to escalate the attack, attempting a
higher level attack (any number of levels higher).

## Alien protections against psionics

As humans become more proficient with using psionics, the aliens will
attempt to counter it.

### Psionic armor

A passive way of defence. Since [XVI](XVI "wikilink") is in the entire
bloodstream of a host, protecting against psionics requires overalls.
They are on the bulky side and it is impossible to combine them with
normal armor (that can be explained away by saying alien armor amplifies
psionics), so the aliens are either wearing psionic armor which makes
them resistant (not immune!) to psionics, but makes them lose some TUs
and all armor-offered protection. Wearing armor makes them even more
susceptible to psionics, but helps them in conventional warfare.

### Stronger XVI link

The XVI will slowly improve the power of its link, being gradually
propagated over a number of aliens, but not all. Its progress might be
ever so slightly better than the natural progress of human psionics,
making psionics more challenging as time progresses. However, if the
link gets too strong, some alien bodies may become overloaded and die.
There is a fine line between being able to protect itself and being
unable to progress any further. This stronger [XVI](XVI "wikilink")
should cause less experienced psi corps to have problems getting field
experience (which might be a necessary requirement to improving).

## PHALANX Base psionic facility

The facility should be required to train psionicists. Training them
should also require live aliens in the Containment, who are likely to
die when used as training tools. During a base attack, a psionic
facility should assist defending psionicists against aliens. The
facility should be more or less autonomous in attempting to degrade
links among aliens.

## Policy against psi-attacked aliens

The player should be able to instruct his troops to not shoot
mind-controlled aliens unless mind control is lost. The player should
also be able to instruct the troops to not use lethal force against
aliens that have been disabled (those that dropped their weapons and are
now wondering around aimlessly).