"While this is partially fixable by having otherwise useless techs be
required as prerequisites for more important things, there is still no
avoiding the fact that it's simply more efficient to dump all scientists
into a single project and do them one at a time..."

There's something fun about having multiple projects going on at once
and not knowing what you'll finish, and unless we give an incentive
we'll lose that."

Why is it more efficient? I don't think it really is, unless you count
the fact that you get your first tech sooner. If you find it fun to have
multiple techs researched at once, all that is needed for you to have
that fun is the *lack of a dis-incentive*. Which IMHO is the way it is.
An incentive is not needed to get the player to do something that is
actually fun. And if he doesn't find it fun, he should be free to
research one thing at a time... unless there is some balance issue that
escapes me. --[Eleazar](User:Eleazar "wikilink") 06:57, 18 February 2008
(CET)

This sounds like a very good idea for balancing as well as feel of
realism. I would put the start of the diminishing returns forumla for
\>3 sientists / project and have it slowly increase so that further
manpower above 10-12 somewhere is almost useless.
--[Stedevil](User:Stedevil "wikilink") 06:15, 18 May 2008 (CEST)

Diminishing returns is not always realistic. There are many efficient
ways to organise research in order to minimise loss of efficiency. As
long as members of research groups are given enough room to function and
coordinate, research can run quite smoothly even with large numbers of
people. I would agree however that scientists with only one or two
subjects or objects to work with won't be able to benefit as much from
larger numbers of people. For example: If you only have one specimen
available for autopsy, throwing fifty scientists in the operating room
would be counter-productive. If you have ten specimen and room for ten
concurrent autopsies, that's another story. My point: <b>If research
limitation is meant to be added for realism's sake, it ought to be added
in a realistic fashion, and not based on arbitrary thresholds.</b>
--[Alien Menace](User:Alien_Menace "wikilink") Saturday 19 July 2008
(GMT-4)

"While this is partially fixable by having otherwise useless techs be
required as prerequisites for more important things ..."

We could also give the player advantages from these "useless" techs
about alien behavior etc, by improving the [Base Facilities/Training
Simulator](Base_Facilities/Training_Simulator "wikilink"). In
description of the facility it warns that we don't fully understand the
behavior of the aliens and that training would improve if we understood
the aliens better. In the research result reports you could add a
paragraph along the lines of: "The results have been uploaded to the
combat simulator." to indicate the improvement, the rate of XP increase
through simulator use would increase (not to a broken level, but perhaps
the starting rate could be reduced and the improvement would
asymotically approach the broken level).

"It's simply more efficient to dump all scientists into a single project
and do them one at a time..."

Yes it is. If I research A and B at the same time, it takes twice the
time as doing just one of them (2T). If I research them one at a time
then it takes the same amount of time total, BUT I will get one of them
halfway through.

If we want multiple research projects to make sense then we need some
incentive to dividing the scientists: a greater overall rate of research
at the expense of not having anything soon (something less than 2T but
greater than T).

So the best throughput (bandwidth) would be to do everything possible
all at the same time, but can earth survive that long without any
research results?

This kinda makes sense, different scientists have different interests
and specialties and so would work better if they have a choice about
what thing to research.

By the way, how much choice a scientist has is proportional to: log( N
), assuming there are N equal choices. Not sure if that is usefull.
--[Droid](User:Droid "wikilink") 19:29, 24 February 2009 (UTC)

How about adding Specialists/Team leaders for hire? They each would have
a preferred avenue/topic for research. When assigned to a project in
their speciality, they would give a little boni. They also have only so
much skills in people management, so they have preferred team sizes.
With expierence their management skills rise and they can work well with
bigger teams. That would make the player keep them and develop them even
if he doesn't have a project in their speciality at the moment.

This also keeps the choice between concentration on a single project or
multiple projects. Does the player bring up one team leader to manage a
big team fast by having him research everything or multiple team leaders
on a slower pace, but taking advantage of their specialities. I think
that would encourage and not force the player to have a few projects
simultaneuosly and not feel as arbitary.
--[Zinder](User:Zinder "wikilink") 22:36 27 February 2009 (GMT+1)

All adding a cap to research would do is limit how players choose to
play the game. To me it is wrong to FORCE everyone to play the game
identical to the way you do. A lot of people would find such a
limitation annoying,and in my case probably cause me not to even play
the game (research would be so slow that IMO it would break the game).
Take for example I'm getting an onslaught of alien attacks, and need
some new armor to be researched quickly as my troops keep getting
severely injured/dying. As is, I can pump a bunch of scientists together
and research it in a month or 2(maybe 3). Now if you cap
scientists(especially as low as 9 or 10) I'll be forced to research
needed armor so slowly that I'd probably be eliminated from the game by
the time research is done. If you find it more fun to have multiple
research going at once, it's as simple as doing so. Players are in no
way hindered to having multiple research,and if they choose to do
so,they can as it currently stands. You need the ability to quickly
research by pumping in lots of scientists,in case of emergency. While it
may be "fun" to be forced to research both advanced weapons and advanced
armor at the same time, it would be more advantageous (and possibly life
saving) to get one of the 2 faster than both at the same time,however
delayed. You're also forgetting that if you've only got one thing
available to research,you'd have tons of wasted researchers sitting
doing nothing. Overall I think that forcing a cap limit is just a bad
idea and could cause more of an annoyance than would do good(which I
can't see it doing any good). WEll,that's my 2 cents, back to lurking
with me :-) --[tizubythefizo](User:tizubythefizo "wikilink") 03:03 28
February 2009 (GMT-5)

One idea I had was that every scientist had some stats for four or five
fields - such as Biology, Mechanical Physics, Energy Physics, Chemistry,
Electronics - similar to how soldiers have stats. However, the sum of
all stats of a scientist should equal 100, and statistically scientists
will tend not to have zero in any stat. Every research topic belongs to
a single field, and only the points that a scientist has in that field
are applied. (An alternative is that only half of scientist points not
belonging in the field are applied). This allows *efficiency* when
researching multiple topics because every scientist will tend to have a
specialty, but *expediency* when researching a single topic because
every scientist *will* contribute to the research in a linear manner.
[Psawhn](User:Psawhn "wikilink") 17:40, 1 March 2009 (UTC)

I think that the point is that there needs to be some <i>reward</i> for
diversifying research to counter the obvious reward of getting one of
the technologies faster. If you made it so that, after you reached a
realistic limit on how many scientists could concurrently research a
given subject without redundant efforts and organization issues (and
there <i>are</i> such limits in real life), adding further scientists
resulted in some decrease in their efficiency, then dumping all your
scientists into a single project at a time would still give you any
given technology faster but would (realistically) slow down your overall
research rate.

Making the management of scientists all complicated probably will not
add much to gameplay, but establishing a fairly simple and realistic
tension between dumping everyone onto the most 'urgent' projects and
letting smaller teams work more independently would be good. I have to
admit, it makes hardly any sense to me that scientists currently have
full profiles like soldiers, unless the idea is that they will be
present during base defense missions. It might even be worth doing to
take away player management of the number of scientists assigned to any
given project, you'd just have to keep authorizing research until all
your scientists were busy.--[ChunLing](User:ChunLing "wikilink") 04:12,
19 June 2009 (UTC)


In my opinion, research is not a deterministic activity. Right now it's
really easy to tell exactly when a given piece of research will be done.
I think this and the focused research issue could be solved with a
simple and elegant system. I think there should be a chance for a
brilliant insight to leap a research effort forward by some significant
amount, say 10%.

<!-- -->


This chance should go up the closer you are to finishing. It should
never be huge, but should likely happen for a player for about a third
of the projects researched.

<!-- -->


This can be accomplished with this formula:
$f\left(x\right)=e^{\left(2*\log{2}-\log{3}\right)*x}$

<!-- -->


Then
$f\left(current_research_points/total_research_points\right)-f\left(previous_research_points/total_research_points\right)$
will give you the chance that a breakthrough occurred during a given
time interval.

<!-- -->


--[Omnifarious](User:Omnifarious "wikilink") 18:24, 23 June 2009 (UTC)