### Acceleration

All aircraft are flying in the same direction: the direction of the
destination of main UFO. Therefore, all aircraft should point toward
this direction. When an aircraft change its route (because target
changes, or it stands off), its acceleration should be limited to a
realistic value (10 g ?). Maybe polar coordinates with a given radius of
curvature would be usefull. The acceleration should change to the
opposite direction when the aircraft reaches the middle point between
start and destination position (except if its speed becomes bigger that
top speed, or lower than a percentage of it cruising speed that would
made him fall).--[Kracken](User:Kracken "wikilink") 23:00, 28 January
2008 (CET)

### Entering / Leaving interception area

Aircraft entering area should enter by the side from which they joined
in geoscape. An aircraft that want to stand off will get to the standoff
ring, shortest distance (In relative terms, directly away from the main
UFO)--[Kracken](User:Kracken "wikilink") 23:00, 28 January 2008 (CET)

### Additional Ideas

I had a lot of ideas, most of them expansions on BTAxis'. They can be
found at <http://ufoai.ninex.info/forum/index.php?topic=2552.0> . For
example, I think a few simple AI rules can emulate dogfighting, and
allowing craft (both human and alien) to target friendly craft will
allow a flexible system for setting up escort or wingmen. Another
example is allowing a distinction between a damage level that will
merely crash the craft, and more damage will cause complete structural
failure and disintegrate the craft. --[Psawhn](User:Psawhn "wikilink")
19:33, 19 May 2008 (CEST)