# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Communication

Commander,

The increasing intellect of the captive aliens in our Containment unit
leads me to conclude that we can finally begin to get a real handle on
alien communication and, more importantly, getting some useable
information out of them. Quoting from my report:

(Odd Behaviour) "There are several species of alien, all of which meet
the physiological requirements for a sentient species, but they show
little to no brainwave activity of their own. This implies the presence
of some kind of shared or distributed thought between them, a hive mind
that grows more intelligent as it grows in numbers."

"With several specimens on hand, their intelligence now seems to be
approaching the human level. If we can create a suitable translation
device or common language, we believe we may finally be able to
establish communications with aliens in PHALANX captivity. Perhaps some
of our linguists or psychology experts could form a dialogue. This is an
avenue of inquiry that we cannot afford to ignore."

Dr. Yamamura is beginning to make real progress on this front, teaching
the aliens several new words of sign language every day, but we require
lab time and funding for a proper study of what these aliens know and
how it can help us. The ability to interrogate aliens about their own
technology could be of incomparable value to our soldiers and engineers.
Cdr. Navarre was so excited at the prospect, he almost argued in favour
of DivBio on this one.

Thank you for your time, Commander. Please approve this program as soon
as feasible.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Communication

Commander,

I'm happy to report that we've received the first good results in our
ongoing efforts to question captive aliens in our Containment unit. Dr.
Yamamura's approach has gradually begun to bear fruit. The aliens have
learned to convey messages in both binary code and human-readable sign
language, and they appear to comprehend a wide range of questions and
instructions. Yamamura and his staff are still working to refine the
sign language we've been using, while the rest of my team has
concentrated on trying to extract useful information from the hive mind.
This hasn't been easy. The aliens are very reticent and require a great
deal of chemical encouragement in order to put them into a more helpful
frame of mind. The casualty rate has been high.

However, what we have is significant. For instance, the hive mind seems
to have no identity. It seems unable to grasp concepts like "I" or "We",
or even "You" and "Them". It only accepts these words as numerical
differentiations -- one specimen or several, one human or a group. This
indicates a severe disconnect between human and alien thinking. The
shared consciousness doesn't even think of itself as a single enclosed
entity; it merely is. This, along with various other answers we've
pieced together from our continued sessions, leads us to believe that
all aliens do indeed share one single mind. And I mean all of them,
Commander. It's not simply a means of increasing team efficiency or
encouraging esprit de corps; it's an indispensible component of alien
society. Every alien that lives and breathes is an equal and identical
part of the greater hive mind, even specimens of completely different
species. The only diversity the aliens will acknowledge is in the
different substances required to keep the various species alive.

Also, the hive mind has expressed puzzlement at our attempts to
communicate with individual aliens, let alone through something as crude
as sign language. A human-understandable analogy might be trying to have
a deep conversation with someone's toenail, or talking to a single cell
in your own body. Of course, that raises the question of where the alien
ears and brain really are.

Certainly the handful of aliens currently in our Containment unit are
not part of the greater hive mind that we hypothesize exists on the
alien homeworld. They seem to be cut off from it for the duration of
their mission to Earth, only to rejoin it when they return later.
Whether this is due to distance or some kind of atmospheric effect,
we've not yet been able to tell. The aliens' answers are hazy on this
subject.

That is all I have to report, Commander. However, as a final note, I
would like to request your permission to look into methods we could use
to more effectively persuade our captives. I must also stress that we
require a healthy influx of new alien specimens in order to replace
losses. We have to maintain the isolated hive mind we have in
Containment. Losing it now would be a significant setback to our
research.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Odd Behaviour`](Aliens/Odd_Behaviour "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")