# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar

Commander,

We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. We should begin
dissection and assessment as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar

Commander,

Our autopsy of this new alien -- the Shevaar -- has been very
interesting. It's a significant departure from the more humanoid Tamans
and Ortnoks, possessing digitigrade legs and a small tail that seems to
be a remnant of this species's continuing evolution. The creature also
appears to be completely blind. It lacks eyes and any other kind of
organ that could be used to process visual light. However, it seems to
have other interesting organs to make up for this deficiency.

First off, the Shevaar looks like the unholy merger of a man and a
lizard. Unlike most Earth lizards, however, the alien is warm-blooded
and its brain is similar in size to our own -- probably slightly larger.
Its massive feet are surprisingly springy, and it can cover large
amounts of ground in a long, leaping gait. The large hands seem to have
no problem wielding the many varieties of alien weaponry.

The results of the autopsy are no less interesting. Upon cutting upon
the chest, we find that the rib cage is a solid shield of bone down the
front, reinforced with stiff cartilege. The makeup of the bones is
different from ours as well, made up mostly of carbon rather than
calcium, with traces of metal that make them extremely hard and tough.
Knives and bullets will have a great deal of trouble penetrating it, and
it will be even harder to find vital organs to damage. Any body mass
that isn't shielded by bone seems to be made up only of lean, wiry
muscle.

The brain is particularly heavily-defended. Several layers of horn wrap
around it like an impenetrable suit of armour. From the marks of wear
and tear around this area, we surmise that these aliens regularly engage
in vigorous head-butting, probably as part of their mating rituals. A
small, omnivorous mouth protrudes from the mass of bone and leads down
to a simple but functional digestive tract.

There are more organs in the head than just the brain and the mouth,
however. Behind the curls of bone there is a set of three organs that
seem to detect infrared radiation. This is apparently what the Shevaar
uses in lieu of eyes. We conclude that the sensitivity of these organs
is roughly comparable to that of a human wearing PHALANX-standard IR
Goggles.

From the autopsy and our analysis of battlefield footage, we can
conclude the following:

\- The Shevaar see in infrared. This will make it difficult to hide from
them or approach them undetected.

\- They carry mostly light equipment to preserve their natural mobility.
This allows them to employ effective hit-and-run tactics.

\- Shevaar bodies are highly resistant to impact and cutting damage, and
their compact internals are not easily damaged by concussion or
explosives. However, their scaly hides provide little protection from
fire, lasers or electricity.

Shevaar are most often used as fast, armoured scouts. They're extremely
effective in this role, combining high mobility with extended vision
capabilities, and the aliens seem to have no shortage of these
creatures. The Shevaar seem to be located between Tamans and Ortnoks in
the nebulous alien hierarchy, in that they sometimes fill specialist or
command roles, unlike Ortnoks, but these tasks are still usually taken
by Tamans whenever the two races are deployed together.

When not engaged in combat, Shevaar spend most of their time as scouts
or skirmishers, or as herders for captured humans.

There is a complex set of implants in the subject's throat that will
require further research to be fully understood. I will send you a more
detailed analysis along with a research proposal.

We should be careful whenever we encounter these aliens in the field.
They are fast and dangerous skirmishers who prefer to fight from cover,
and should be pursued and kept under fire at all times when discovered,
as long as this does not overextend our position. Exposing our team's
flanks or rear to a squad of Shevaar could have disastrous results.
Although grenades are unlikely to kill any Shevaar outright, they will
be very useful for flushing them out into our troops' sights.

Also, although blind, Shevaar possess balance organs that are affected
by the sound of our flashbang. It will achieve similar results on them
as it does on humans.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Shevaar corpse`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Alien Breathing Apparatus`](Research/Alien_Breathing_Apparatus "wikilink")` (if not yet opened; can also be opened by`
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Taman`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")` or `[`Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok`](Aliens/Ortnok "wikilink")`)`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")