## Obsolete texts

Old Official Description:

*The predecessor of the RPG-37 was the Stinger AA Rocket Launcher.
Phalanx weapon scientists and engineers developed a new tracking system
not only capable to fight airborne but also ground targets. The RPG-37's
rockets use a combination of laser guidance and high speed cameras to
identify the target. Despite a good accuracy when the tracking system
had enough time to correctly lock on the target, this rocket launcher is
of limited value if it has to be fired in a short time period.*

The description is wrong, since the UFO:AI RPG fires _unguided_
rockets.

I like the incidentiary secondary shot suggestion very much. Perhaps we
could put it into one of the beta versions and see what people say?
Could you, Centron, who proposed it, prepare a sketch of the RPG
secondary fire mode stats (weapon_humans.ufo) and post it on the forum?
I can help in case of problems...
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 15:21, 2 July 2006 (CEST)

Oh, never mind... For now I envision three types of rockets: the
standard one, incendiary and Tachyon-Beam Warhead Rocket. The last one
is a human advantage over aliens that only have Tachyon Rifle secondary
shot as an explosive Tachyon effect. Humans coudn't understand the
physics of that blast (probably many tachyon collisions in exactly the
same spot on an armour plate causing a superheating plasma
blahblahblah), but they did the rocket and it's in some ways superior. I
guess the standard and tachyon rockets could differ in splash damage
radius so that the former is not totally obsoleted by the latter. Or
just obsolete it and have one less ammo type to worry
about.--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 22:51, 9 July 2006 (CEST)

I suggest changing it to "HPRL" instead of "HPML" since it fires
rockets, not missiles. --[Trifler](User:Trifler "wikilink") 06:21, 4
February 2011 (CET)

## Current ideas

See the talk page for Tachyon technology.