# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Cannon

Commander, we've recovered a large alien cannon that fires high-energy
particle beams. It is extremely deadly and has frightening effects on
our armour during preliminary testing. We need to perform more research
on these weapons immediately.

Please authorise this program at your earliest convenience.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Cannon

Commander, we've finished work on this big damned cannon we brought
back.

We've always suspected that a real alien army would field more than just
plasma weapons and Kerrblades. Now they've gone and proved us right.
This particle beam weaponry is extremely advanced, a quantum leap above
the plasma weapons, miniaturised far beyond our ability to duplicate.

Particle-beam weaponry is designed to hit a target object with a stream
of accelerated particles moving at near-light velocities, therefore
carrying tremendous kinetic energy. Until now we've only seen the aliens
use this technology in large UFO weapons. Now, however, they're using it
on the ground in the worst way.

This cannon has got to be the most powerful infantry particle beam the
aliens can field, because I can't imagine them getting much bigger.
Though smaller and lighter than the Plasma Blaster, the PB cannon's
recoil is out of this world. It can blast a full grown man clean off his
feet in one shot. No normal human will be able to use this weapon. We
can adapt it for mounting on our UGVs, and we may be able to enhance our
soldiers with cybernetic implants or powered armour, but that's all.

As bad as the recoil is, the target will have it worse. A single
fleeting hit -- a heartbeat of exposure -- will buckle three inches of
homogenous steel and blow the target back by several metres. This is
usually all that's necessary. A second hit will turn the buckle into a
fist-sized hole, clean through. Our infantry armour will perform only
slightly better, but deflection will help somewhat.

The cannon's mechanics are quite simple, nothing that we can't duplicate
easily with enough money and effort. The only thing we have yet to
figure out is the ammo supply. The energy readings we've taken from the
magazines are extreme, and despite our efforts, we haven't managed to
disable or disarm one in order to safely open it up. Even shooting it
dry doesn't completely deactivate one of these magazines. More research
will be required before we can try and understand them, much less
reproduce them.

That's all I've got for you right now, Commander. I'll keep you updated
on our progress with the magazines.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [particle beam](Damage/particle_beam "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Plasma Blaster](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Plasma_Blaster "wikilink")
- [Heavy Laser](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Heavy_Laser "wikilink")
- [Research/Tachyon Control](Research/Tachyon_Control "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Extremely high damage.

2\) Long range.

*Con:*

1\) Very long reload time.

2\) Very high recoil -- cannot be used by standard infantry, must be
wearing at least Medium armour.

3\) Damage lowered by smoke/gas/fire.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Particle beam cannon`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Particle Beam Cannon`
` `[`Man-Portable Particle Beams`](Research/Man-Portable_Particle_Beams "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")