## Advanced Facilities

This page describes advanced PHALANX base facilities, and how the game
should handle them.

## Advanced base facilities versus regular base facilities

Advanced base facilities are upgrades to regular base facilities. They
perform better in every way and are required for some high-performance
tasks that their old counterparts can't handle. However, they typically
also take up more space in the base, so upgrading old facilities may
include reorganizing the base. Generally speaking, old facilities can
not perform the same tasks as their upgrades, so the player will have to
build the new facilities in order to complete the game.

## List of advanced base facilities

### Advanced Radar Facility

This is an upgrade to the regular radar facility. It has increased range
and does a better job at detecting UFOs, especially higher-end UFOs.
Note that radar towers can not be upgraded.

### Advanced Research Facility

This is a 2x2 facility. It can employ more scientists than a normal
research facility, for example 30. The output of a fully staffed
Advanced Research Facility should be higher than that of four regular
research facilities. The Advanced Research Facility is required to
research some high-end techs. Scientists in old research facilities can
not contribute to such research.

### Advanced Workshop Facility

This is a 2x2 facility. It can employ more workers than a normal
workshop facility, for example 30. The output of a fully staffed
Advanced Workshop Facility should be higher than that of two regular
workshop facilities. The Advanced Workshop Facility is required to
produce some high-end items, notably high-end interceptors and
dropships. Workers in old workshop facilities can not contribute to such
production projects.

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")