## Overview

This proposal outlines an alternative mechanism for creating and
equipping aliens in missions. It arose from a discussion between geever
and H-Hour on 2 Apr 2012 but is not slated for immediate development.

As of 2.4, alien teams and equipment are generated by matching up team
equipment sets (.ufo script) with alien teams spawning from within the
code. Our proposal would generate equipment on a per-alien basis in
order to prevent the occurrence of aliens who have only a grenade. This
equipping mechanism could also be used for equipping PHALANX soldiers if
desired.

## Creating the Alien Team

As of 2.4, alien teams are spawned when the mission is entered. Instead,
alien teams should be spawned when the UFO is added to the game. This
will allow us to implement future technology which might be able to
decipher information about the UFO's mission, how many and which type of
aliens are on board, or other useful data while the UFO is in flight.

Alien teams should be constructed from a list of alien teams defined
like this:

`alienteam alien_assault`
`{`
`   /*`
`    * Minimum and maximum alien interest in which `
`    * this team should be used `
`    */`
`   alieninterest 300 500`

`   /*`
`    * Mission types this team should participate in`
`    */`
`   missions {`
`       terror`
`       base`
`       intercept`
`       harvest`
`       rescue`
`   }`
`   `
`   /*`
`    * Valid alien types`
`    */`
`   aliens {`
`       taman`
`       ortnok`
`       bloodspider`
`   }`
`   `
`   /*`
`    * Equipment to give aliens`
`    * This would reference equipment definitions`
`    * described below.`
`    */`
`   equipment   assault`
`}`

The list of alien teams could also be used in the Skirmish menu to
define the enemies.

## Equipment Selection

Equipment should be assigned to aliens for each alien. Instead of
drawing from a pool of weapons for the whole team, as is done in 2.4, we
would assign each alien a primary and secondary weapon from a list of
approved weapons, and then extra equipment. If no items are defined for
primary, secondary or equipment, those items are not equipped. Each
equipment set is defined on its own (below) and then referenced in the
alien team definition (above).

`equipment alien_assault`
`{`
`   /*`
`    * Primary weaponry defines a weapon and its accompanying`
`    * ammo. If no ammo is needed, none should be defined.`
`    * The internal system should try to match weapons to alien`
`    * skill type.`
`    */`
`   primary {`
`       plasrifle       plasrifle_ammo`
`       plasbaster      plasblaster_ammo`
`       needlergun      needlergun_ammo`
`   }`
`   `
`   /*`
`    * Secondary weaponry is defined if desired`
`    */`
`   secondary {`
`       pbeampistol     pbeampistol_ammo`
`       plasblade`
`       /*`
`        * An empty parameter could be used multiple times to`
`        * effect frequency that a secondary would not be equipped`
`        */`
`       empty`
`   }`
`   `
`   /*`
`    * Extra equipment is defined if desired, with `
`    * a minimum and maximum number to equip of `
`    * each item.`
`    */`
`   equipment {`
`       plasmagrenade   0 4`
`   }`
`   `
`   /*`
`    * Armor to equip. Use of empty here could be very useful,`
`    * as well as ability to repeat items to increase frequency.`
`    */`
`   armor {`
`       armour_medium_alien`
`       armour_medium_alien`
`       heavy_alien`
`       empty`
`   }`

`   /*`
`    * With a require parameter we can define which categories `
`    * must not be empty. We can add "empty" to both primary and`
`    * secondary sections but tell the equip code that one can be`
`    * empty but not both.`
`    */ `
`   require primary or secondary;`

`   /*`
`    * Can be more specific:`
`    * `
`    * require primary and (secondary or equipment);`
`    * `
`    * Means "unit must have primary weapon and either a secondary`
`    * or equipment item"`
`    */`
`}`

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")