Text from BTAxis docs

Prerequisites:

`Second-Generation Vaccine`
`Alien Psionics`

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Proposal: Behind The Facade

Commander,

Our continued efforts into producing a full anti-XVI cure have produced
a startling discovery. In several of our experiments, we have tried to
administer the developing serum to our alien prisoners in order to
observe the results. Previously, subjects injected with the serum
suffered violent allergic reactions resulting in convulsions, profuse
internal bleeding in the lungs and viscera, and coma followed by death.
Autopsy revealed the bone marrrow of subjects to have liquified and
begun rapid decomposition.

Today, however, a subject lived.

Commander, the alien has been cut off from the captive hive mind in our
Containment unit. It no longer responds to any of the communication
methods we have devised, and interrogation of our remaining captives
confirms that the hive mind has lost all sensory input from this
particular specimen. The subject exhibits infantile behaviour -- it has
little control over motor functions, struggling to walk, and acts
frightened of everything that moves. It also appears to have lost all
knowledge of how to use alien technology. Clearly, their knowledge and
experience is contained within the hive rather than any one brain.

I cannot stress this enough, Commander; we have to research this
phenomenon right away. We're at the cusp of key revelations into the
relationship between XVI and the alien hive mind. This could be the
piece that puts the entire puzzle in perspective.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Re: Behind The Facade

Commander,

This is it. We've finally learned the grim truth of the alien threat.

During our studies into XVI and the alien hive mind, we occasionally
suspected that XVI served some ancillary role in the aliens' shared
intelligence, perhaps even going so far as to enable the hive mind. It's
now painfully clear that we were not thinking far enough. Our
experiments reveal that removing XVI from a subject removes it from the
hive mind. The subject's subsequent regression to mental infancy
indicates that it has been under the hive mind's influence from birth.
This would indicate that the hive mind simply dominates the subject's
normal thought processes throughout its entire life, but it does not
explain the complete lack of memory upon removal from the hive. Pursuing
this, we then discovered other evidence which blew our theories right
out of the water.

After removal, the subject's brainwave activity increased. This
childlike adult now shows as much of an EEG response and as much basic
intelligence as any human. Commander, this alien has never before used
its own brain.

We quickly formed a solid hypothesis that links XVI to the alien thought
processes. To put it simply, XVI does not facilitate the hive mind; XVI
is the hive mind. The organism itself is what does the thinking for all
these alien hosts. It seems to be one whole, a single sentience
distributed over billions and billions of microorganisms -- like a
distributed computing network -- all connected through some kind of
psionic contact. I still can't quite wrap my head around it. This is far
outside anything we've known, and its magnitude is staggering.

I shall try to make an example using rough figures. Think of a mind
which gains 3-5 IQ points for every host it has. From what we've been
able to gather during our interrogation sessions, the alien population
may number in the trillions. Now think of a supercomputer twice the size
of the sun with near-human, equal-to-human or greater-than-human
complexity, that wants to enslave the entire human race. I, for one,
will not be getting any sleep tonight.

There is simply no way we can compete. It seems the only reasons why
Earth hasn't been overrun yet are 1) The alien mind has been busy with
another project, and 2) It wants to gain us as XVI hosts, not eradicate
us.

Our focus must lie in discovering the other alien objective, learning
the location of the alien mothership, and finding a way to destroy the
mothership along with its entire population. We cannot keep resisting
the alien invasion, and we have no chance of winning a research war
against this viral intelligence. They will keep coming. They will keep
infecting more of us than we can possibly cure or keep vaccinating. We
either eradicate this infection at its source or face extinction as a
free, independent species.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")