From BTAxis docs

Prerequisites:

`Alien Psionics`
`The Enemy On Earth`

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Proposal: The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited

Commander,

While going over some of our old data about our first XVI-H test
vaccines, I noticed an interesting effect in some of our test subjects.
Quoting from my report:

(A Significant Victory) "When tinkering with some of the organism gene
sequences, it began to lend itself to large and widespread mutations,
which is anomalous with the samples we've extracted from active hosts.
In all parts of a host body, the infection maintains its identical
nature, and I've managed to figure out how.

Once the infection has established itself in the host body, it begins to
actively destroy anomalous versions of itself, cross-referencing the
makeup of any cells inside the host body to a batch of templates stored
in the victim's bone marrow. Interestingly, the bone marrow is where the
initial attack lodges itself, at which point it begins to insert itself
directly into leukocytes created in the infected marrow. The connection
is obvious. This is how it bypasses the human immune system and
maintains its own viral hygiene."

The possibilities may not seem apparent at first; certainly they had not
seemed apparent to me until I went over the mutation results. Even
though the organism we researched a month ago is outdated compared to
the one we face now, we've been able to make some very interesting
changes to its genetic makeup during our test runs. These changes are
most apparent in the effects reported by our test subjects. They have
claimed to be able to sense other test subjects through walls -- without
even knowing about the existence of other subjects. In some cases, the
entire test batch began unknowingly using expressions or turns of phrase
that one or more of the subjects were fond of. However, they do not seem
to have formed a hive mind or communal identity of any sort, and do not
lose their individual intellect when separated from each other. The
reports do not appear to be restricted exclusively to XVI-carriers
either; a small number of subjects injected with a particular test
vaccine have apparently been able to detect unvaccinated lab staff
before entering the room. This is currently uncorroborated, but it
meshes with the fact that the aliens are able to remotely influence
human minds regardless of vaccination.

Allow me to cut to the chase. We believe we may be able to insert a
genetically-engineered virus of our own to control certain changes to
the XVI organism -- given enough research -- and possibly alter its
function to be beneficial to a human host. For example, if we could
equip our soldiers with this enhanced awareness about their relative
locations, it would yield significant gains in closer team tactics and
would decrease the response time for meeting new threats. This is a
fascinating possibility that holds awesome potential, though I realise
it is an offshoot of our other XVI research and we may not be able to
give it precedence. Still, it could be well worth the research effort.

If you disagree with my assessment, I will respect your decision, and I
assure you I won't let these ideas distract me from my normal work.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Re: The Enemy On Earth -- Revisited

Commander,

(more here)

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")