From BTAxis docs

## Human Vaccine

Prerequisities:

`The Enemy On Earth (OR The Enemy On Earth (Alternate))`

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Proposal: Human Vaccine -- URGENT

Commander,

I won't beat about the bush on this one. Right now we are helpless
against XVI. We need to create some kind of defence against it now
before the whole planet becomes infected. There can be nothing else as
important as this, no other more pressing research priorities. Never
mind UFOs and plasma guns; this is the gravest threat humanity has ever
faced.

Please, give us your authorisation to begin work right away.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

## Human Vaccine 2

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Re: Human Vaccine -- URGENT

Commander,

Our research has stalled. The XVI organism is too complex and alien, and
we understand it too little. We don't have the necessary information to
combat or change it. All of our attempts and experiments so far have
failed. If we want to have any chance of succesfully creating a vaccine
we need more information about the organism and its genetic structure.

Unfortunately, the only place such information is kept is in alien
databanks beyond our reach. We need to gain access to this information
at any cost. Without it, humanity is doomed to fall.

Right now it seems our only hope lies with something we've only seen
very recently in blurry camera footage -- a new type of UFO whose
appearance seems to be synonymous with the rapid spread of XVI in the
region. We've only caught glimpses, but regardless this UFO type seems
to be at the forefront of the aliens' biological warfare operations.

What we need to do is capture one of these UFOs. Immediately. Any cost
in lives or money is warranted; it's insignificant compared to the total
destruction of the human race. I'll have someone alert you about it as
soon as we spot one of these UFOs within our area of operations -- it
must be engaged and recovered if we're to have any chance of stopping
the infection.

I shudder to think of what might happen if we fail.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

## Significant Victory

Origin:

`Special mission success`

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: A Significant Victory

We've done it!

There has been no rest or sleep for us down in DivBio, so please forgive
my diction in this message. I haven't been within sight of a bed in
three days. But it was worth it. XVI-H is no longer an uncounterable
threat.

Our first order of business was to identify the modus operandi of the
organism as it infects a human body. When tinkering with some of the
organism gene sequences, it began to lend itself to large and widespread
mutations, which is anomalous with the samples we've extracted from
active hosts in the pasts. In all parts of a host body, the infection
maintains its identical nature. Now, with the information we recovered
from the captured Corrupter UFO's databanks, I've managed to figure out
how.

Let me stress, these alien files have been nothing short of
enlightening. Unfortunately there only seems to be technical data
regarding the XVI organism's genetics and the infection process, and
nothing else beyond that. We surmise that the aliens in the field either
already know the rest or don't need to.

My apologies, I'm drifting off topic.

According to the files, and backed up by our research, the infection --
once it has established itself in the host body -- begins to actively
destroy anomalous versions of itself, cross-referencing the makeup of
any XVI cells inside the host body to a batch of templates stored in the
victim's bone marrow. Interestingly, the bone marrow is the ultimate
target of the initial infection, where a number of organisms settle and
mutate. After the mutation is finished they serve as breeders and
templates for more XVI organisms, which attach themselves directly to
new leukocytes created in the infected marrow. The connection is
obvious. This is how it bypasses the human immune system. Once the
organism penetrates the victim's bone marrow, it's all over but the
shouting.

By changing these template cells, we can insert a declawed strain of the
organism into an uninfected human body -- a strain that does not enslave
the victim to the alien hive mind -- which will then proceed to
eliminate any other cell of XVI-H, including the harmful strain straight
from the alien source. Unfortunately, we've yet to find a way to alter
the templates in an already infected body, as the infection will destroy
our vaccine without hesitation.

Massive inoculation programs are already in progress across the UN
countries. We should be able to completely halt XVI-H spread in a matter
of days. Work continues to try and cure those unfortunate souls who've
already fallen victim to the infection -- but I fear it might be some
time before we can work that miracle.

Still, we won't give up until we've beaten this bug once and for all!

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

## Second Generation Vaccine

Prerequisites:

`New wave of alien attacks`

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Proposal: Second-Generation Vaccine --
URGENT

Commander,

I'm afraid I have some very bad news.

About six hours ago, we received a number of tissue samples from a human
raid on Singapore. The local military drove them off, capturing several
specimens alive, and sent the samples directly to us. We just finished
putting them through a battery of tests. They've come back with
harrowing results.

We've managed to date the XVI-H template cells in the living bone marrow
of captured specimens, and some of the templates are only days old. Not
only that, but Singapore officials have since dug up genuine vaccination
records to go with several of these results. These people could not have
been infected before they were given the PHALANX vaccine.

We are currently unsure how this could be possible; nevertheless, there
can be no doubt. Somehow the aliens have managed to reengineer the
infection to blast right through our vaccine. Gene sequencing has
revealed several discrepancies between the XVI-H we know and the new
cells recovered from these samples. We are clearly dealing with a new
generation of XVI, specifically designed to smash our only defence
against this kind of bio-warfare.

Commander, we have to research these discrepancies right away and
develop a new vaccine before more people fall prey to the infection. XVI
must be stopped at all costs. I recommend we halt all other research
until we can put together a second-generation vaccine and get it ready
for distribution.

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command FROM: Dr.
Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations
Command DATE: %02i %s %i SUB: Re: Second-Generation Vaccine

Commander,

(more here)

Sincerely, Dr. Connor

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")