As of 12 May 2012, this proposal is mostly implemented. Only the ability
to sell from UFO yards is missing. --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink")
16:32, 12 May 2012 (SAST)

## Off-base UFO Yards

At the time of writing, PHALANX stores captured UFOs in in-base UFO
hangars. This is not practical for several reasons. One reason is that
in tactical missions, the UFO that is supposed to be in the UFO hangar
can't be displayed (some UFOs are as large as half the base). ANother
reason is that UFO hangars can only hold one UFO, which has generally
been ill-received.

The proposed solution to this problem is to discard the in-base UFO
hangars, and replace them with an off-base UFO Yard. This UFO Yard would
be a PHALANX facility placed by the player somewhere on the geoscape.
The UFO Yard would be one type of [off-base
installation](Proposals/Off-base_Installations "wikilink"). As such it
does not count as a base and the player does not get to develop it like
one, but it does allow the player to store his captured UFOs there
(arguably up to a certain limit).

UFOs stored in the UFO Yard automatically count as stored in every
PHALANX base, and every PHALANX base is allowed to perform R&D on the
UFOs in the Yard. However, the time taken for such operations will
partly depend on the distance from the base in question to the Yard. The
farther away, the slower the progress.

The UFO Yard can be targeted by the aliens. Mission spawneds in the
[campaign framework](Gameplay_Proposals/Campaign "wikilink") of the
"attack PHALANX craft" type should sometimes result in a UFO trying to
bomb the UFO Yard. A successful bombing will destroy some or all the
UFOs stored there.

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")