# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Harvester

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. This one is significantly larger than previous
UFOs we've observed and seems to be the centre of many alien formations,
making it an especially important target for our research. Uncovering
the craft's purpose and examining its special equipment may give us
essential new insights into the aliens' mission here on Earth.

We're ready to start studying and dismantling the craft whenever you
say, but we will need some lab time and funding to make a proper
assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Harvester

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

This craft -- which we've dubbed the 'Harvester' -- appears designed
specifically for landing on a planetary surface and deploying an alien
harvesting party. It is equipped with a set of large, sturdy landing
legs and a special set of thrusters located in the UFO's belly to give
it VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) capability. Once the landed
Harvester's crew has collected enough captives, corpses and other
biomass, they return to the UFO and lift off into orbit, quickly
disappearing back to wherever it is they came from.

The Harvester seems to bear out our theories about fuel capacity being
the main limiting factor for UFO speed, as it is both larger and faster
than any other we've previously observed. It's able to carry more
antimatter fuel and protect it far more effectively, with a tougher
hull, thicker armour, and more effective emergency antimatter-dumping
measures. Even if an explosion does occur, most of the blast will be
contained by the UFO's extremely strong construction.

In the air, the Harvester is extremely dangerous and should be a
high-priority target. Its firepower is more than a match for anything we
can currently field. Its only obvious drawback is low manoeuvrability
compared to smaller UFO types. Our interceptors are significantly more
agile and we have far more combat experience in Earth atmosphere than
the aliens do. This is one of the few advantages we'll have over the
Harvester, and it would be wise to upgrade our equipment in order to
mitigate some of the aliens' tech superiority.

When encountered, we should concentrate our best pilots and craft on any
Harvesters in the area and take them out as fast as possible. Only then
should we concern ourselves with shooting down any escorts.

Our estimates of the Harvester's increased capabilities raise some
frightening points. It seems that alien craft will actually grow faster
as they become larger and more powerful, and there's no doubt that, if
they can build these Harvesters, they can build bigger and nastier UFOs.
Without upgrades to our airfleet, we may not be able to stand up to more
dangerous threats in the future.

Please, do what you can about this when you can, Commander. I'd hate for
us to be caught unprepared.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Harvester UFO`
` `[`UFO Theory`](Research/UFO_Theory "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[300px](image:Ufo_harvester.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")