# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Harvester

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. This one is significantly larger than previous
UFOs we've observed and seems to be the centre of many alien formations,
making it an especially important target for our research. Uncovering
the craft's purpose and examining its special equipment may give us
essential new insights into the aliens' mission here on Earth.

We're ready to start studying and dismantling the craft whenever you
say, but we will need some lab time and funding to make a proper
assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Harvester

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

This craft -- which we've dubbed the 'Harvester' -- appears designed
specifically for landing on a planetary surface and deploying an alien
harvesting party. It is equipped with a set of large, sturdy landing
legs and a special set of thrusters located in the UFO's belly to give
it VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) capability. Once the landed
Harvester's crew has collected enough captives, corpses and other
biomass, they return to the UFO and lift off into orbit, quickly
disappearing back to wherever it is they came from.

The Harvester seems to bear out our theories about fuel capacity being
the main limiting factor for UFO speed, as it is both larger and faster
than any other we've previously observed. It's able to carry more
antimatter fuel and protect it far more effectively, with a tougher
hull, thicker armour on the fuel tank, and more effective emergency
antimatter-dumping measures. Even if an explosion does occur, most of
the blast will be contained by the UFO's extremely strong construction.

The Harvester's fuel tank can take up to 0.6 grammes of antimatter and
possesses a potential explosive force of approximately 25 kilotons when
full.

There are three front-facing weapon mounts arranged in a triangle around
the craft's cockpit. Two of these are equipped with the particle beam
weapon we've observed in other UFOs, but the remaining mount features an
interesting kind of alien missile launcher. The missiles have highly
sophisticated homing systems and are propelled by matter-antimatter
reaction rockets similar to UFO engines. These missiles are insanely
fast, so fast that they don't need explosive warheads to kill their
prey, relying solely on kinetic impact and the sympathetic detonation of
any remaining fuel. More research into this weapon will be a high
priority.

In the air, the Harvester is extremely dangerous and should be a
high-priority target. Between the twin particle beams and the alien
launcher, its firepower is more than a match for anything we can
currently field. Its only obvious flaw is a significant drop in
manoeuvrability from the Scout and Fighter models. Our interceptors are
significantly more agile and we have far more combat experience in Earth
atmosphere than the aliens do. This is one of the few advantages we'll
have against the Harvester, and it would be wise to upgrade our
equipment in order to mitigate some of the aliens' tech superiority.

When encountered, we should concentrate our best pilots on any and all
Harvesters in the area and take them out as fast as possible. Only then
should we concern ourselves with shooting down any escorts.

Our analysis of the Harvester's increased capabilities over the Scout
raises some frightening points. It seems that alien craft will actually
grow faster as they become larger and more powerful, and there's no
doubt that, if they can build these Harvesters, they can build bigger
and nastier UFOs. We should try to adapt the alien antimatter
technologies to our own interceptors as soon as possible so that we can
get on an even footing with the aliens now and will be able to stand up
to more dangerous threats in the future.

--Cdr. Navarre

Estimated Harvester statistics:

*Size:* Small (12m x 18m x 6m)

*Cruising speed:* +/- 2,200 km/h

*Top speed:* +/- 4,100km/h

*Crew capacity:* 12 max.

*Weapon capacity:* 2 Particle Beam hardpoints, 1 Alien Launcher
hardpoint

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Harvester UFO`
` `[`UFO -- Scout`](Scout "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` UFO -- Carrier`
` `[`Particle Beam Weapon`](Aircraft_Equipment/Weapons/Particle_Beam_Weapon "wikilink")` (OR: `[`UFO -- Fighter`](Fighter "wikilink")`)`
` Alien Launcher`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[300px](image:Ufo_harvester.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")