## Aircraft Evaluation -- Firebird-class Dropship

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 17 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Commander, I've been over these old files before you, and I have decided
to replace them with my own assessment and conclusions about our choice
of dropship. Apologies if I'm overstepping my bounds, but the old
PHALANX dropships in storage are simply not up to modern spec. None of
them even got out of the prototype stage when they were new. There are
only two surviving examples, and both of those ships have been left
mothballed in government warehouses for the past 60 years, not worth the
trouble to dig out of storage. We've inherited a real mess with regards
to equipment, I can't even find half the stuff that's supposed to be
waiting for us. I'm doing my best to find superior alternatives for gear
that just isn't up to the task.

The one bit of good luck in this dropship mess is that I managed to
persuade our UN rep to earmark some budget for a new ship, and I think
you'll like it.

The Galeoth Firebird VTOL (Vertical Take-Off and Landing) is the best
aircraft we can hope to employ in our dropship role. It was designed as
a cargo hauler, but has quickly been picked up and adapted into a troop
transport by military contractors. It has since become a popular
alternative to helicopters in both the military and civilian worlds due
to its four HM-5600 pulse detonation engines, which provide the Firebird
with VTOL capability and achieve good fuel-efficiency with far fewer
moving parts than any helicopter engine. This increases reliability
across the board and makes for a vastly faster aircraft partly due to
the lack of rotor blades. The HM-5600s are still very thirsty engines,
however, and the high-powered aviation fuel can be too expensive for
civilian applications.

The Firebird's cruising speed is Mach 0.74. At a maximum velocity of
Mach 1.03 it can just barely squeak through the sound barrier, but this
causes a lot of stress on the airframe and should be avoided outside of
emergencies. It has one variable weapons hardpoint located on its nose,
which will mount anti-air weapons such as aircraft cannons or missile
racks. It can also carry additional equipment to improve its flight
characteristics and combat performance. There are acceleration harnesses
for up to 8 soldiers and a cargo bay which can contain and deploy small
battlefield vehicles.

There is nothing else in the sky as well-suited to our dropship role as
the Firebird. It is faster than any helicopter, more manoeuvrable than
any fixed-wing aeroplane, and it can respond quickly and efficiently to
threats all over the world.

The Firebird requires 1 Large Hangar for storage, maintenance and
deployment. It has 1 medium weapon hardpoint located in the nose.

### Recommended Doctrine

The dropship is what will carry our troops around the world, in order to
respond to alien attacks on the ground or to clear UFO crash sites for
recovery. It should be deployed immediately to sites of alien activity
and to recover downed alien craft.

Once a site has been cleared of live aliens, heavily-wounded soldiers
will immediately be dispatched for medical treatment. The remaining
troops will secure the area until a PHALANX recovery team can take over
and ensure delivery of any and all alien artifacts to our facilities.
This is important because attempted looting of items left on the
battlefield may become a problem in densely-populated regions. We can't
afford to lose valuable alien technology because some idiot feels the
need to take a souvenir.

While armed, a Firebird-class dropship is not able to stand up to
dedicated fighters, and it should never be sent as the sole interceptor
to any UFO sighting.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

- [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[300px](image:Drop_firebird.jpg "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")