- New menu for assigning weapons and shields to aircraft.
  - New shields and weapons for aircraft (technologies).
- Changed soundcode to dynamic loadable sound drivers (see
  [cvar](cvars "wikilink") **snd_ref**)
  - [SDL](SDL "wikilink") sound for windows is working.
  - New [arts](arts "wikilink") sound driver for linux.
- Dedicated server for windows
- Improved tutorial.
- Updated translations.
- Aircraft selection on geoscape.
- Some research tweaks.
- Implemented the use of alien armor.
- Descriptions for
  - [Equipment/Armor/Kevlar
    Vest](Equipment/Armor/Kevlar_Vest "wikilink")
  - [Research/Advanced Armor
    Fabrics](Research/Advanced_Armor_Fabrics "wikilink")
  - [Kerrblade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Kerrblade "wikilink") (moved
    over to the alien side)
  - [Frag Grenade](Equipment/Misc/Frag_Grenade "wikilink") and [Hellfire
    Canister](Equipment/Misc/Hellfire_Canister "wikilink") (changed from
    incendiary grenade)
  - Lots of others are finally in-game.
- New production system.
- Difficulty settings are now campaign dependent.
- Chat button for multiplayer on [HUD](HUD "wikilink")
- Extended menu if statements.
- Interceptions (not fully implemented atm).
- Updated weapon stats.
- Updated particles.
- New models and their particles:
  - [Incendiary
    Rockets](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Rocket_Launcher "wikilink")
  - [Plasma Grenade
    Shells](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Grenade_Launcher "wikilink")
- Aliens equipped differently for different missions.
- A lot of new and needed sounds by Karen Pease
  (meqme@dauqghtersoftqiresias.oqrg -- remove qs to despammify)
- Soldiers, scientists, etc. are added at the end of each month by
  nations depending on their mood.
- Multiple ammo for the same weapon can be loaded and reloaded.
- Half-used clips are gathered and correctly accounted for.
- Lots of unnecessary ".0" in the [GUI](GUI "wikilink") (relic of the
  abstract range units) are removed.
- New buildings for base view.
  - Workshop
  - Hospital
- New beta map (see also [List of
  Maps](Mapping/List_of_Maps "wikilink"))
  - dam01
- Buges fixed:
  - \- After research is finished, Scientists go away

  - \- Map terrain08d (access fixes)

  - fixed gamma for win32

  - Fixed multiplayer.

  - Fixed some bugs about wrong indices for multiplayer and savegame
    exchange (sort file lists)

  - Soldier equipment vanishes on mission retry