<div style="float:right;">

__TOC__

</div>
### Bugfixes

- Added missing scrolling for Buy/Sell menu.
- Enhanced buytypes for items and aircraft and fixed multiple buytypes
  problem.
- Removed not used UGVs which sometimes could produce crash.
- Fixed music definitions for missions.
- Several bugfixes and enhancements to make usage of Reaction-fire more
  stable/usable.
- Fixed multiplayer gametype definitions.
- Fixed integrated IRC client behaviour, including sending messages to
  the channel.
- Various fixes related to aircraft selling.
- Moving inventory between containers now removes moved inventory as
  well.
- Grenade trajectory now turns to red on obstacles.
- Various mapfixes.

### Features

- Balancing: Multi Reactionfire now costs 14TUs instead of 7. This is a
  temporary thing, read the "gameplay" section of
  [Proposals](Proposals "wikilink") for more.
- Implemented cvar to set the maximum time a team has to finish their
  round in multiplayer.
- Completely rewritten saving and loading system.
- Finished implementation of Flashbang - now Flashbangs will disable
  enemy reactionfire as well.
- Reintroduced employees renaming again.
- Hire menu and Team Select menu now shows Health bar as well.
- Heavily improved chat subsystem for multiplayer as well as Multiplayer
  Team Selection menu.
- Improved describing weapons and ammo in UFOpedia and other menus,
  including displaying firemodes.
- Added multiplayer server password protection.

### Sound

- More new weapon sounds thanks to Alex Parker

[Category:Changelog](Category:Changelog "wikilink")
[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")