<div style="float:right;">

__TOC__

</div>
*Note: The release was just called 2.1 instead of 2.1.0 in some places.*

### Features

- New features:
  - Transfer stuff and aliens from one base to another.
  - Close geoscape popups by (left-)clicking somewhere else.
  - Limits for amount of hired employees, determined by [Living
    Quarters](Base_Facilities/Living_Quarters "wikilink") facility.
  - Aircraft buying and selling.
  - Damage radius for grenades.
  - Live-display of TUs when dragging things in the inventory in
    battlescape and display of the various TU costs for each 'place'.
  - [MacOSX](MacOSX "wikilink") dedicated server and some alignment
    fixes for [PPC](PPC "wikilink").
  - Updated targeting and tracing code.
  - Scrolling for text nodes (e.g. via mouse scroll wheel) - especially
    useful for the UFOpedia and the campaign descriptions:
    - Scrollable text for research descriptions & similar text (+GUI).

    - Scrolling in the Production menu (see
      [1](http://ufo.myexp.de/temp/ufo16.jpg) for the old way)

    - Scrolling for the Hire menu.

    - and will scroll one line up/down (hold key to repeat).

    - and will scroll multiple lines up/down. (hold key to repeat).
  - Basic implementation of a flashbang (should basically counter
    reaction fire).
  - A new menu to show the [keybindings](keybindings "wikilink").
  - Optional "Double-Click" move system.
  - Production queuing.
  - Scriptable skill and ability values for character
    ([campaign.ufo](campaign.ufo "wikilink")).
  - Geoscape clouds (they move wrong right now).
  - Background music fading.
  - Improved zooming.
  - Implemented basics for
    [Hospital](Base_Facilities/Hospital "wikilink") facility.
  - PNG support.
  - [Screenshots](Screenshots "wikilink") can now be saved in TGA, PNG
    or JPG format.
  - Added code in order to use ammo in several weapons (e.g the
    \[\[Equipment/Ammunition/Flechette_Shells\|flechette

shells\]\] usable in the micro-shotgun as well as the riot-shotgun).

- - Pre-research descriptions are now supported.

  - We can enable topics for research when one *or more* similar items
    have been researched. (i.e. a `require_OR` next to a `require_AND`
    list).

  - Debug design change: `#ifdef DEBUG` checks used for developer tools
    (some might call them cheats) should be changed to
    `COM_CheckParm("-developer")`, or an equivalent global variable that
    is set on startup, this enables modders to use the development tools
    but hides them from users (suggested by LordHavoc).

  - [Extended weapon and ammo combinations (todo page
    link)](TODO/2.1/Extend_weapon_and_ammo_combinations "wikilink"):
    - This brought us multiple weapons that can use the same ammo with
      different stats (this brought with it a redesign for multiple
      firemodes per ammo for each weapon it can be used in).
    - In order to effectively use the newly added multiple firemode
      (i.e. more than 2) we now have a nice dropdown list for each
      weapon similar to the way it worked in original UFO.

  - [Alien
    Containment](Base_Facilities/Alien_Containment_Facility "wikilink")
    facility:
    - Collecting aliens and alien bodies after the mission.
    - Alien Containment menu (right click on Alien Containment facility
      in base).

  - New way to collect items and aliens after a mission - now they are
    being loaded to aircraft and unloaded when dropship lands in base
    (coders: see CL_DropshipReturned()).

  - Autosell option in Buy/Sell menu to decide whether autosell item
    after collecting or not.

  - Option to change skin for all soldiers loaded to aircraft.

  - Improving skills by gaining experience.

<!-- -->

- Multiplayer
  - [IRC](IRC "wikilink") client integrated for multiplayer.
  - Multiplayer team selection after you've connected (to be able to
    select a team that is not already in use) (see
    [cvar](cvars "wikilink") teamnum).
  - Master server implementation in .
  - Maxteams support (worldspawn property) - make this a server
    [cvar](cvars "wikilink") too.
  - Logfile output on server console to be able to generate a log (and
    create a ladder someday).
  - Version check and checksums to prevent cheating (checksums for
    ufo-script files are still not implemented - only for maps).
  - Support for script definable gametypes (dedicated server and listen
    server).

<!-- -->

- Bugfixes
  - Fixes for isometric mode (culling fixes).

  - Lots of map bugfixes like `stepon` and `clipping` flags as well as
    player starting positions.

  - Merged bugfixes from [2.0-RC5](Changelog/2.0-RC5 "wikilink") to
    2.1-devX.

  - Research from only 1 base.

  - Fixed order of entries in production menu (it was messed up because
    of non-produceable items were taken into account).

  - Fixed [Collecting alien
    artifacts](Changelog/2.1/Fix_collection_of_alien_artifacts "wikilink")
    problem.

  - Fixed UFOpedia behaviour in various ways, including presence of
    pre-research technology descriptions.

<!-- -->

- Other
  - Code cleanup for easier ports (e.g. ).
  - The problem why exported models from Blender didn't show up
    correctly in-game was an ([MD2](MD2 "wikilink")) exporter problem.
    See
    [here](http://projects.blender.org/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=4899&group_id=9&atid=125).

### Artwork

- Added scroll icons for scrollable textboxes.
- Lots of textures added for mapping purpose.
- "heli2" military-texture
- "van2" texture by Yoshiboy.
- Various "boat" textures by Yoshiboy (see ).

### Models

- Models for maps
  - "pitchfork" model
  - "van2" car model ()
- [Saracen-class
  Interceptor](Aircraft/Saracen-class_Interceptor "wikilink") model. See
  .
- [Flashbang](Equipment/Misc/Flashbang "wikilink") model.
- Grenade launcher ammo (duplicated default model)
  - [25mm IC Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_IC_Grenades "wikilink")
    (texture: red launcher grenades)
  - [25mm Flechette
    Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_Flechette_Grenades "wikilink")
    (texture: green launcher grenades)
  - [25mm PB Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_PB_Grenades "wikilink")
    (texture: blue launcher grenades)
- [Plasma Grenade](Equipment/Misc/Plasma_Grenade "wikilink") model and
  texture.
- [Flechette Shells](Equipment/Ammunition/Flechette_Shells "wikilink")
  (texture: green shotgun shells) for shotgun2 and micro shotgun
- Added barrel to [Bolter
  Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Bolter_Rifle "wikilink") magazine
  model as stated in the description + updated Inventory size (3x1).
- [Heavy Laser](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Heavy_Laser "wikilink") model
  done see ().
  - Texture by Protoarmor
- [Micro Shotgun](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Micro_Shotgun "wikilink")
  aka "pistol-shotgun" is done (see ). Model by
  [Winter](User:Winter "wikilink"), texture by
  [Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink").
- [Machine
  Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Machine_Pistol "wikilink") model &
  texture done (see ). Model by [Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") and
  texture by Yoshiboy.
- [4.2mm MP Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/4.2mm_MP_Magazine "wikilink")
  (model, texture)
- [Plasma Blade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Plasma_Blade "wikilink")
  model&texture changed to reflect the description. (See for the model)
  --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
- Female scientist models (body, no heads yet) have been added.
- Microwave (see ) (finished in 2.1)
- Coffeemachine () (finished in 2.1)
- Fire extinguisher (see and ) (finished in 2.1)
- Emergency exit (sign) (see ) (finished in 2.1)
- dishware: cup, plate, fork, knife (See ) (finished in 2.1)
- fireplace (see ) (finished in 2.1)
- Removed all the "GDF" string in the soldier skins

### Maps

(See also the [list of maps](Mapping/List_of_Maps "wikilink"))

- New map "estate01".
- New map "bridge01".
- New map "industrial06".
- New map "oriental05".
- New building map "Alien containment" (initial building). Read more
  about it here: [Alien Containment
  Facility](Base_Facilities/Alien_Containment_Facility "wikilink").
- New random map tiles for [tropic](Mapping/tropic "wikilink").
- New random map theme [country](Mapping/country "wikilink").

### Sounds

- new mission tracks from Alex Parker
- many new weapons sounds thanks to Alex Parker (including Bolter Rifle
  & Machine Pistol)

[Category:Changelog](Category:Changelog "wikilink")
[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")