## Version 2.2.0

### Code

#### New Features

- 3D Geoscape - possible to select in options.
- Target to different height levels for shooting using the shift key.
- [Tip of the Day](Tip_of_the_Day "wikilink").
- Implemented capacities for base facilities.
- Implemented dependencies for base facilities.
- Aircraft slots to get several aircraft items per aircraft.
- Air interceptions.
- Base defense against UFO raid.
- Personel and aircrafts transfer between bases.
- Actorsounds.
- UFO crash.
- UFO-Recoveries.
- Shoot-through-walls.
- [Footstep](Mapping/Footsteps "wikilink") sounds.
- Added e-mails.
- Ambient sounds via
  [misc_sound](Mapping/Entities/misc_sound "wikilink") entity

#### Bugfixes and code cleanup or improvement

- Solaris port (thanks McMurlock)
- Mac PowerPC (and maybe also PS3) port
- Reimplemented the transfer code.
- [RoQ](Artwork "wikilink") support (cutscenes).
- OGG-Vorbis support for sound effects.
- New memory subsystem which fixes most of the memleaks we had in our
  old code.
- Better item descriptions in UFOpedia and other menus.
- Fixed Intel graphic card support.
- New network code.
- Merged client and renderer code
- Video subsystem now uses SDL on every plattform
- Merged client and sound driver code
- Sound subsystem now uses SDL on every plattform
- Improved sound system (no more sound stuttering)
- Faster map loading
- Bugfixes for random map assembly code
- Bugfixes for overlapping texts

### Artwork

- New rank images that reflect the list of ranks written by Winter.
  You can see them in
  [Manual/Singleplayer/Ranks](Manual/Singleplayer/Ranks "wikilink").

### Models

- [Bloodspider](Aliens/Bloodspider "wikilink") model with animations &
  texture (see ) has been added
  - The texture has been created by Protoarmor.
  - Full integration into the game is still open though.
- [IR-Goggles](Equipment/Misc/IR_Goggles "wikilink") model (new). See .
- [SHIVA Rotary
  Cannon](Aircraft_Equipment/Weapons/SHIVA_Rotary_Cannon "wikilink")
  model&texture added. 4-barreled version of the "chaingun" model that
  is usable in an aircraft. (See for the model)
- [Particle Beam
  Weapon](Aircraft_Equipment/Weapons/Particle_Beam_Weapon "wikilink")
  model&texture added. (See for the model and
  [here](http://mattn.ninex.info/img/pbw_06.jpg) for a screenshot.)
- Fixed broken Shevaar death animation
- A lot of new static map models - see the
  [Gallery](http://ufoai.ninex.info/?page=Gallery) for render images.
- Power armour (currently only multiplayer)

### Sounds

- some new geoscape event sounds

### Other

- Improved in-game IRC client (hit to get it from everywhere in the game
  once you are connected)
- Improved serverbrowser
- New Armour system
- Soldier turning via (Right mouse button)
- Redone the credits sequence
- Language selection via menu
- Implemented headgear slot
- Polish for mail client, hospital and some other menus
- Cleaned up textures - replaced a lot of textures with GPled ones and
  removed a lot of unused textures
- Better popup messages when and why buildings are inactive
- Updated PDF manual

### Maps

- New maps , ,
- Fixed a lot of mapbugs (like actors inside of solid objects, unusable
  stairs, shoot through objects and so on)
- New base facilities:
  - Antimatter Storage facility map
  - Missile facility for base defense

[Category:Changelog](Category:Changelog "wikilink")
[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")