- One issue with gaining experience on missions is that it can be
  "milked" if the player knows what to do. The question is whether or
  not we want to prevent this. If we do, we could consider imposing an
  experience cap per mission per soldier, or maybe drastically slow down
  experience gain after a certain amount.
  --[BTAxis](User:BTAxis "wikilink") 14:56, 11 September 2007 (CEST)

:\* There is max amount of given attribute/skill, which can be achieved
by soldier, which is 100. Just simply do not allow to improve
skill/attribute above that limit. In the future versions implants will
raise such max amount, and the experience can improve it again to the
new max amount limit.--[Zenerka](User:Zenerka "wikilink") 11:15, 12
September 2007 (CEST)

::\* While that makes sense it is not what I was trying to address. The
point is that soldiers can be ramped up a lot **in a single mission**,
for example by walking back and forth a lot or intentionally getting
hurt. It is that kind of thing we should consider damming in.
--[BTAxis](User:BTAxis "wikilink") 12:19, 12 September 2007 (CEST)

To me any XP reward during a mission seems unnatural. A soldier is not
going to suddenly discover how to hit things with a rifle after he kills
an alien. So lets give each soldier a steady stream of XP during time at
base. But it seems reasonable for the way the soldier spends his XP to
change according to what happened on a mission. That is, after missing
everything he aimed at with his rifle, he decides to spend more time at
the range.

The desire for Strength increases when the soldier is overburdened
during combat, or when low strength affects accuracy or TUs.

The desire for Speed increases when the soldier runs out of TUs.

The desire for Mind increases when the soldier panics, when failing at a
PSI attack, or when failing to defend against PSI.

For each weapon skill, the desire increases every time a shot using the
skill misses, or if the soldier fails with the weapon in some dramatic
way (such as damaging friendlies but no hostiles). Note that the soldier
never misses with a weapon the soldier doesn't use.

Health increases indirectly through strength, or when at the hospital
(during which time normal XP is not available).

So a soldier tries to match skills to what is required in combat, but
does not learn them there. Maybe there is a slight XP boost after a good
mission or a promotion.

--[Droid](User:Droid "wikilink") 04:55, 18 September 2008 (UTC)

## Speed increase criticism.

I applaud most of the stuff in this article. Great work, great
reasoning. I do have an issue with dramatically increasing the "Speed"
number as some sort of experience gain thing. It leads to veteran
characters being able to move outrageous distances compared to newer
soldiers. As a former infantryman, deepsea diver, security professional
I can tell you I get plenty more efficient with training and experience,
but my ability to run across a set of terrain really doesn't change.

Problem I suppose is that "speed" works for both manual dexterity
actions and movement, but as long as you keep the gain in the overall
number very small over the course of a campaign I think it's
workable.[Parjlarsson](User:Parjlarsson "wikilink") 22:31, 1 May 2011
(CEST)