## DEFINITIONS

**rookie:** a soldier who has between 30-40 strength points, with an
encumbered threshold between 15-20kg and a light threshold at 6-8kg.

**reasonable vet:** a soldier who has gained 5-15 strength points,
likely between 40-50 strength points, with an encumbered threshold
between 20-25kg and a light threshold at 8-10kg.

**strongest vet:** a soldier who is exceptional at strength. 60 strenght
points, encumbered threshold at 30kgs, light threshold at 12kgs. The
player may only have a few of these in an entire game.

## Armour

I would suggest differentiating the weights a bit more. Ideally, I'd
like a **reasonable vet** to be able to wear the light armour, a small
sidearm and still get the speed boost (under 9-10kgs). If we budget 3kgs
for a weapon, that means the light armour should be about 7kgs. Maybe
not very realistic, but it works for the game. 12kgs seems about right
for the nano armour. It would allow a **reasonable vet** to equip
8-13kgs of other weaponry but put a strain on weak rookies, giving them
only 3kg of weaponry space. Power armour could be heavier, maybe 15kgs.
It should require a **reasonable vet** to be used unencumbered and a
**strongest vet** to be used with heavier weaponry.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 12:51, 28 September 2012 (SAST)


For light armour we are talking synthetic spider web, so I don't think
realism problems should arise form reducing the weight; you know about
game balance better than me, so I will trust your judgment in this
matters.

--[DarkRain](User:DarkRain "wikilink") 16:40, 30 September 2012 (SAST)

## Sniper Weapons

I'd like to reduce slightly some of the sniper rifles, even though I
know in real life they are pretty heavy. Aside from close specialists,
snipers stand to gain the most from the light threshold. It could make
the difference between 1 and 2 aimed shots per turn, or just the ability
to move and shoot in a single turn. I'd like to see a **reasonable vet**
able to equip the Sniper Rifle and one reload and still make the light
threshold (8-10kg). For this reason, I suggest the Sniper Rifle weigh
7kg. The Bolter can remain heavy. That's a good drawback for the
overpowered weapon early in the game and will allow me to scale back the
TU penalties for its use. I'd like to see it down around 12kg, though.
The player can get it early in the game, so I want a **rookie** to be
able to wield it without getting encumbered. A bolter plus a reload at
the current proposed settings (at time of writing) is 15.4kg (unless
game counts the ammo in the gun, which would take it to 17.1kg). The
coilgun should sit somewhere in between, maybe 9-10kg.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 13:04, 28 September 2012 (SAST)


This raises a question: should the game count the ammo in the gun? I've
started work assuming that should be the case, but what others think?

--[DarkRain](User:DarkRain "wikilink") 16:44, 30 September 2012 (SAST)


I think the game should count ammo inside the gun. Although there are
pros and cons to either way, I think it is better to be consistent: if
ammo has a weight, it counts in or out of the gun.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 18:40, 30 September 2012 (SAST)

## Assault Weapons

For the most part, I think these numbers are alright. I'll have to do
some investigation once the implementation is in master but these are
good for a start. Needler might come down a little bit, but since it
will mostly be wielded by **reasonable vets** it may be alright at that
weight. --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 14:06, 7 October 2012 (SAST)

## Close Weapons

Again, nothing jumps out at me with the raw numbers. But I'll
investigate this more closely once the system is implemented, since the
light speed bonus will be crucial for these weapons.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 14:06, 7 October 2012 (SAST)