I think having hidden stats is bad. Why is a stat required for crash
survival? I would have thought it would be a function of how hard the
craft was hit, etc. --[Blondandy](User:Blondandy "wikilink") 21:16, 17
June 2008 (CEST)

All pilot stats start at one? In that case, what is each point worth as
far as skill? If PHALANX has its pick (within reason) of the best of the
best, they should have some pilots to pick from. I don't think every
pilot should start off brilliant in every way, but there ought to be
some variety in their abilities. --[Alien
Menace](User:Alien_Menace "wikilink") 14 July 2008

I also think unmanned transport is okay as it is. Though I initially
assumed all craft required pilots(at least one soldier on board), once I
noticed that interceptors didn't require them I reasoned that in a
future that has achieved world government, simple unmanned transport
shouldn't be difficult. I proceeded to only assign soldiers to
interceptors for single-soldier micro missions. Perhaps interceptors
weren't designed to be used this way, but incidentally it appears I was
unable to bring home the captured alien. --[Alien
Menace](User:Alien_Menace "wikilink") 14 July 2008

Since UAV coordination implies a group of UAVs, I would vote that of
pilots can be assigned to UAV control, number of UAVs would be based on
the total UAV coordination while the individual performance of UAVs
always falls somewhere between each pilot's UAV coordination skill
possibly the average, if we want to enable better UAV pilots to bring up
the overall skill level by correcting less experienced pilots mistakes.

Perhaps remote-piloted craft with the option of on-board pilots for
better control makes more sense than completely unmanned flight for the
setting/gameplay. Despite the use of unmanned **spacecraft** in our
current era, UFO:AI does have a right to its own setting quite separate
from reality. Not to mention, remote-piloted craft would make use of
hired Pilots, allowing them to gain experience. --[Alien
Menace](User:Alien_Menace "wikilink") 14 July 2008

## Battlefield View

During combat, designated pilots should stay with the craft, but that
presents an issue on maps that include the landed transport. Are the
pilot(s) still in the cockpit? What if the aliens attempt to board the
transport? Suddenly, a portion of the team must be allocated to
defending the transport and included pilots. Though this really doesn't
change so much of the gameplay, it is something to think about. --[Alien
Menace](User:Alien_Menace "wikilink") 14 July 2008

## micromanagement

Having to control every part of the game will get really tedious fast.