Agree on everything here, except the (I presume out date) references to
TUs deducted from next turn. This would be a very good implementation of
timing for RF.

Additionally, RF against enemies that was detected with IR-googles
previous round should count the TU's for all actions of the enemy even
before there is a direct line of sight to him. Logically that would make
sense since if you KNOW there is an alien on the other side of the wall,
can even see him moving towards you, there are no civilians, then you
should be able to squeze that trigger the very split second the alien
comes around the corner. However implementing the IR-google thing has
lower priority than fixing up the rest of the RF calculations as
described before. --[Stedevil](User:Stedevil "wikilink") 01:56, 24 June
2008 (CEST)

I Believe the Reaction fire setting should be automatic, and although
sounding old fashioned i like the idea.

With the current Reaction fire system you must set points during your
turn and move or shoot as normal. the TUs you used are taken up by the
reaction fire if an alien comes into your vision and you shoot at it.
the problem as i see it however is that it uses up those TUs aswell as
the next turns TUs. I dislike it, even though it has some logical
explanation. I propose that Reaction fire be implemented as an automatic
system, using TUs leftover from the units actions. the firing cost would
also have to be lowered slightly, accounting for the low amount of
leftover TUs units carry at the end of the turn.

This proposal could considerably improve or worsen the game, but it
could be a nice tradeoff for some or most players.