# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Grenade

Commander, our last tac mission has brought back an alien plasma
grenade. This is a highly powerful grenade-type weapon that, once
thrown, explodes in a shower of superheated plasma. It's somewhat larger
and appears to be a good deal more dangerous than our standard frag
grenades.

We should examine this weapon to see how it works, what it's made of,
and how it's put together. Once we have those points figured out, we
should be able to replicate it for our own use.

The project is ready for research, just waiting on your authorisation,
Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Grenade

Commander, our assessment of the alien plasma grenade is complete. Like
all the alien weapons, it's very nasty and very dangerous.

The device is essentially made up of seven components: a casing, a
trigger, a battery, a timer, an explosive charge, a plasma chamber and a
solid hydrogen core. The casing is specially shaped to create a toroidal
blast zone around the grenade, concentrating power into a smaller area.
The battery is highly powerful and barely within our power to duplicate.
The trigger is of particular interest, because it contains a tiny
thumbprint scanner which verifies that the grenade is not being
accidentally activated. A legitimate (i.e. non-accidental) activation
starts the timer countdown. The length of the countdown is variable
depending on the number of seconds that the trigger is held down, but it
has a built-in safe minimum of three seconds.

Once the timer reaches zero, the battery unleashes its power, heating a
core of hydrogen to plasma in milliseconds. The explosive charge sends
the grenade tumbling into the air, and once the grenade achieves
vertical orientation and ideal height, the plasma chamber containment is
switched off. Rapid expansion of the plasma causes the casing to burst,
spraying high-velocity fragments and plasma particles all over the area
of effect. Due to the unstable nature of uncontained plasma, the grenade
has a limited blast radius, beyond which the plasma particles cool and
slow down too much to be dangerous. This radius is approximately 50%
larger than that of a standard human frag grenade.

Anything caught within the area of effect will be either severely
injured or dead.

We've drawn up a set of blueprints that will allow our Workshops to
begin immediate construction, and a manual to train our soldiers in its
use. They will now be able to use the plasma grenade as any other
grenade in our arsenal.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [Frag Grenade](Equipment/Misc/Frag_Grenade "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High damage. 2) Large area of effect.

*Con:*

1\) Limited range. 2) Large. (1x2 inventory size)

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma Grenade`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Plasma And The Grenade Launcher`](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_PB_Grenades "wikilink")
` Enables production -- Plasma Grenade`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")