I have some problems with this paragraph.

> The alien propulsion system is a type of rocket engine unlike any ever
> built on Earth. It uses direct matter-antimatter annihilation to
> generate thrust by injecting protons and antiprotons into the reaction
> chamber, and then channeling this explosive force out the back of the
> engine. This gives a UFO extreme power and needs no air or other gases
> to fuel the reaction, allowing it to burn in hard vacuum. There is a
> highly-advanced cooling system continuously pumping liquid nitrogen
> through the engine housing in order to keep it cool and reduce the
> infrared signature. Engine heat is also used to supply the craft's
> electricity.

In antimatter annihilations you get antiparallel gamma rays. Momentum is
conserved, the vector sum of the gamma rays momentum is the same as the
vector sum matter/antimatter which annihilated. So you will not get any
thrust by annihilating antimatter.

Antimatter is a good choice of fuel. It is the most energy dense fuel
possible.

Any type of rocket needs reaction mass. Newton's third law. in order to
generate momentum in one direction, you have to throw something with
momentum out of the back.

You could have the UFO collecting gas in atmosphere to use as reaction
mass. They could store some for use in space. once in space there is
diffuse hydrogen that can be scooped up. if your UFO is going fast
enough it can scoop hydrogen at quite a rate.

How about having an antimatter generator powering an advanced
synchrotron which accelerates ionised reaction mass to generate thrust?

For any generator you need a temperature difference, not just a high
temperature. (max efficiency is 1-cold/hot, where temps are in Kelvin).

So, cooling is a problem too. high altitude planes, for example, have
trouble dissipating heat because the rarefied air does not conduct heat
well. Space craft can only lose heat by radiating infra-red (or shorter
wavelengths if they are very hot). I fear that if the craft is going to
produce a lot of heat in space, it will need some new laws of
thermodynamics invented: eg quantum thermal suppression or entropy
absorption.

I hope you find these comments useful. I am happy to help with this
stuff. My day job: radiotherapy physicist.

--[Blondandy](User:Blondandy "wikilink") 15:29, 5 June 2007 (CEST)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Your idea seems too complicated to me. Certainly there must be some way
of making a realistic direct or near-direct matter-antimatter rocket.
--[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 15:03, 23 June 2007 (CEST)

I think that this
[1](http://space.newscientist.com/article.ns?id=dn12064&feedId=online-news_rss20)
is more plausible than this
[2](http://www.transorbital.net/Library/D001_S01.html) I still plan to
do some work to see. i confess it is less clear cut than i thought. i
was thinking about positrons, not antiprotons. i am not convinced the
magnetic funnelling described in that article is very useful. (apart
from protecting you craft from radiation - i do not think it would help
thrust much). i will put some more work into this when i have time.

--[Blondandy](User:Blondandy "wikilink") 22:33, 26 June 2007 (CEST)