I suggest talking directly to Winterslice (in the Forum or IRC channel)
since he is (re-)writing most of the descriptions and sure is open for
critic&suggestions. --[80.109.73.21](User:80.109.73.21 "wikilink")
18:56, 11 September 2006 (CEST)


What particular part of the forum? And what's the IRC address?
[KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 22:58, 14 September 2006 (CEST)

Very interesting choice of the 4.7mm. Is this round similar to the G-11
4.7mm Round? If so, you may want to bump up the capicity of said weapon.
[KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 19:22, 16 September 2006 (CEST)


Yes, the 4.7mm I had in mind is a souped-up G11 round, but the G11 had
very long and straight magazines and a rotating breech to allow that mag
configuration. The UFO:AI assault rifle has a curved box magazine
(presumably spring-loaded) loading from below. It's not going to have as
much capacity as the huge G11 mags. Hell, with the big block of
propellant that encases the G11 round, I wonder if you could even fit 30
into a double-column magazine. It might actually be bigger than a 5.56mm
in its casing. -- [Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")


Well, I don't know how the logistics of the 4.7 would work with spring
loaded and caseless ammunition. Is caseless something you wish to stick
with? Then again, it looks like they use caseless ammunition with a more
standard configuration here with the
[VEC-91](http://www.gunsamerica.com/guns/976491124.htm). Just some
thoughts. [KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 03:37, 17 September 2006
(CEST)


I believe caseless ammo is the future. It's significantly lighter than
the same round with casings, and it takes away the need to eject hot
brass, therefore making the whole weapon safer and more resistant to
outside elements. Today's problems with caseless are almost definitely
going to be fixed by 2084. -- [Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")



Hmmm, how about creating two types of magazines (with same type of
picture, maybyin future versions with two different pictures) - one
small (curved) for 30 or 50 rounds and one big (box or drum) for 70-100
rounds (simmiliar to mags for M16 - low and high capacity).

And idea for new weapon type - simmiliar to weapon for future warior -
weapon have common barell (5,56 or 7,62?) for anti-personal shoting and
integrated 40mm grenade launcher + integrated night vision.

There should be more documentation. What is the recoil, minimum
strength, encumbrance of each weapon?