## Technical Specifications: HPML Rocket Launcher

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The South-African MPMDS (Multi-Purpose Missile Delivery System) has a
classic, almost surgically clean name that completely belies its
purpose. It is the heaviest infantry missile launcher on the market,
able to fire anti-tank shells as easily as high-explosive rockets that
turn infantry into hamburger. Originally intended as light field
artillery, this weapon is fairly new; its only combat experience has
been in Mumbai in the hands of Commonwealth troops. It was one of the
handful of weapons that eventually turned the tide in the fighting --
and there is a good reason why.

Alien craft on the ground emit fantastic amounts of jamming and other EW
(Electronic Warfare) activity. In fact, they emit so much of it that
ordinary 'smart' missiles are rendered completely ineffective. If one
type of alien EW doesn't fool the missile's relatively stupid electronic
brain, another will. No amount of tinkering by Earth's military
engineers has been able to fix the situation. The MPMDS, however, will
remain effective against the alien invaders -- one of the few human
missile launchers that can -- because its rockets carry no onboard
guidance.

The rockets are 120mm monsters the size of artillery shells. They are
fired out of a smoothbore barrel, fin-stabilised in flight, and have a
maximum effective range of 70 metres. Surprisingly they are made up of
only three parts: a rocket booster, a warhead and an impact trigger.
This simplicity allows them to remain effective and reliable in the most
hazardous situations. Though the rockets are not very accurate, they
will devastate anything in their path, even aliens. It takes only one
good hit from an MPMDS rocket to send the enemy flying.

Standard ammunition for this launcher includes: HE (High-Explosive)
rockets, AA (Anti-Armour) rockets, and IC (Incendiary) rockets. New
types of MPMDS ammo were being researched by Commonwealth manufacturers
before the start of the war. We have all their data on file and could
use it to create revolutionary new rocket types.

Along with the HPGL Grenade Launcher, this weapon will provide our
troops the artillery support they need to survive and win through.

For PHALANX use, we have given this rocket launcher the classification
HPML.

### Recommended Doctrine

The HPML is best used in a support role, providing covering fire for our
assault troops with high-explosive and/or incendiary rockets. However,
care should be taken that friendly fire incidents do not occur, as this
could have disastrous effects in a combat mission.

Friendly troops should be kept away from the rear of the launcher during
firing; the hot exhaust gases are extremely dangerous to nearby humans.
The HPML should not be fired at targets closer than 8 metres from the
shooter. Violating these safety guidelines could result in serious
injury or death to the shooter and other members of the team. If a
target is closer than 8 metres, any shooter should immediately resort to
his sidearm or a combat knife. Anything else would be suicide.

### Addenda

Along with sniper rifles and grenades, this is one of the few
standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic
aliens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")
- others

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [HE Rocket](Equipment/Ammunition/HE_Rocket "wikilink")
- [IC Rocket](Equipment/Ammunition/IC_Rocket "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")