# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Antimatter

Commander, based on the extremely interesting findings we've made during
our examination of the Scout UFO, I'd like your permission to use some
lab time in order to more closely analyse the aliens' extensive use of
antimatter and its implications on this war.

Particularly I would like to see if we can find some way to replicate
antimatter for our own purposes. Matter-antimatter annihilation has
astonishing potential as a fuel. In terms of energy generation, it has
probably the best size-to-weight ratio of any material in the universe;
the ability to use it like the aliens use it would catapult our
technology base centuries into the future. We must research this at the
earliest opportunity!

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TILL:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FRÅN:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATUM:** %02i %s %i

**ÄMNE:** Re: Antimatter

Our study on antimatter is complete, Commander, and we're ready to
present our results. I'm afraid the news is mostly bad.

There are a lot of things the aliens know that we don't. Nowhere is this
more clear in their widespread use of antimatter. It seems to be
plentiful for them, at least plentiful enough to send out UFO after UFO
to Earth, burning tanks full of antiprotons. Human experiments into
antimatter, on the other hand . . .

The first artificially produced antimatter on Earth consisted of 9 atoms
of anti-hydrogen created at the CERN particle physics laboratory,
situated near Geneva on the border between France and Switzerland. Not
long after, another lab produced approximately 100 atoms. We've come
slowly forward over the years in tiny, tiny steps, but even though we
can now produce antiprotons by the millions, it's easy to forget just
how little that really is.

In fact, the biggest obstacle to our adaptation of the alien fuel is the
availability of antiprotons. We've come a long way since 1995, but even
with every particle physics laboratory in the world churning out as many
antiprotons as possible, it would take eighty million years to produce 1
gramme's worth of antiprotons. By comparison, the amount contained in a
Scout UFO's tank exceeds that of all the antimatter produced on Earth
over the past hundred years.

Another worrying point is that the aliens also seem to be using
antimatter as part of their weapons systems. Antimatter-fuelled alien
missiles are one thing; what if they begin using antimatter itself as an
explosive? My staff has come up with more than one disconcerting idea
along these lines. For myself, I think we should try to head the aliens
off at the pass in this regard. A special program regarding
antimatter-based weapons may be a highly interesting option to pursue --
it may be a more economical prospect than trying to adapt alien rockets
to our interceptor craft.

Humanity is a long, long way off from being able to create antiprotons
in the amounts necessary to fuel these matter-antimatter rockets. The
bottom line is, we cannot duplicate this alien technology. We don't know
how they create their antimatter or how they manage to generate enough
electricity to do so. Unless and until we can get our hands on this
equipment, our efforts will be fruitless.

Our only major successes have come from studying how the aliens store
their antimatter. We're confident we can employ the same magnetic
storage techniques, creating special facilities for safely storing up to
ten grammes of antimatter. I've sent you a set of blueprints in a
separate message to peruse at your convenience. We've also designed
antimatter fuel tanks that should fit in our interceptors given some
major overhaul. Of course we'll need a full understanding of the alien
engines before we can begin incorporating it.

For all intents and purposes, we are unable to replicate the alien fuel.
If we use antimatter in our own technology we will be dependent upon
recovering it from alien sources. This seems a dangerous course of
action, but we may have no choice; we need to adapt this technology as
soon as possible if we are to have any chance of truly stopping the
invasion.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Alien Materials](Research/Alien_Materials "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`UFO -- Scout`](UFO/Scout "wikilink")
` `[`UFO -- Harvester`](UFO/Harvester "wikilink")`)`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables use of Antimatter in production`
` `[`Antimatter Storage`](Base_Facilities/Antimatter_Storage "wikilink")
` `[`Upgrade -- Antimatter Engines`](Aircraft_Equipment/Upgrades/Antimatter_Engines "wikilink")
` `[`Antimatter Weaponry`](Research/Antimatter_Weaponry "wikilink")` (if `[`UFO -- Harvester`](UFO/Harvester "wikilink")` already researched)`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")