# Articolo UFOpaedia

## Proposta

**A:** Comandante della Base, PHALANX, Comando delle Operazioni
Atlantiche

**DA:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Divisione Servizi Segreti, PHALANX,
Comando delle Operazioni Atlantiche

**DATA:** %02i %s %i

**OGG:** Proposta: Censimento di XVI

Buongiorno, Signore

Dopo i nuovi sviluppi dell'infezione aliena sulla popolazione civile
terrestre, dobbiamo trovare un metodo per determinare, nelle varie zone
della terra, quante persone sono state contaggiate e il tasso di
infezione. Il più è fatto, lo so, ma può essere importante trovare una
cura. Non possiamo aiutare nessuno se non sappiamo quali persone sono
infette.

Quello che propongo è realizzare un cesimento planetrario, eseguito con
un piccolo test del sangue, che registri tutti gli individui infetti da
XVI. Tutti dovranno sottoporsi al test una volta alla settimana per
essere sicuri che siano sani -- il test sarà eseguito in modo più
frequente se vi saranno i presupposti per un'eventuale infezione. Una
goccia di sangue verrà usata come campione, verrà presa casualmente da
una vena per evitare manomissioni. Fortunatamente l'organismo XVI è
grosso e occupa la maggior parte del campione di sangue così da rendere
i risultati molto vicini al 100%

Samples will only need to be as large as a single drop of blood, taken
from a random vein to prevent tampering. Fortunately the XVI organism is
large and prevalent enough that we can test these samples on the spot
with near-100%-confidence results.

This is going to be a major undertaking that requires careful liaising
with the intelligence services of Earth's eight big nations. I've
already prepared plans and simulations to demonstrate the operation and
effectiveness of this program. With some time and funding, we can
convince them of the project's importance and have everything
operational in a matter of weeks.

Abbiamo solo bisogno di una sua firma sulla linea tratteggiata, Signore.

Distinti saluti,

Col. Falkland

## Risultato

**A:** Comandante della Base, PHALANX, Comando delle Operazioni
Atlantiche

**DA:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Divisione Servizi Segreti, PHALANX,
Comando delle Operazioni Atlantiche

**DATA:** %02i %s %i

**OGG:** Re: Censimento di XVI

Buongiorno, Signore

The XVI census program has just gone into effect. Weekly rolling tests
have commenced this morning, and I've got a full report on our estimated
performance levels and operational details.

Our strategy is based around local medical centres, where the XVI tests
are performed by existing nursing staff under the supervision of a small
police or military guard. If a test turns out positive, this guard will
perform the arrest and turn the infected prisoners over to the UN for
containment and study. Once the aliens figure out this scheme -- I don't
think it'll take them long -- the infected people will start avoiding
the census, thereby giving us the data we need simply by their absence.

As always there's good news and bad news. I'll start with the bad news.

Despite our best efforts, the census data will have some limitations.
99.9% of the planet's population is registered with one national
authority or another, but out of ten billion people that still leaves
several million unaccounted for. We will be able to extrapolate figures
that are accurate to within several thousand heads, but the statistics
we generate won't ever be exact. This means the program is less useful
for identifying those who have been infected, but still a godsend for
keeping track of XVI spread and alien activity on a global basis. After
all, we need to know what kind of progress we're making against this new
threat.

The good news is that the UN and the member nations have agreed to
shoulder the entire cost of the census program. They are handling all
the equipment and manpower locally, with strenuous checks as to the
reliability of personnel and the validity of the results. The
information will be piped directly to our command centre at no charge to
us.

The best thing about this program is that we can now keep track of
infection levels and how much threat each region is under from XVI. This
will work in conjunction with our normal detection methods to warn us
where alien activity is worst and allow us to intervene before the
situation becomes critical.

Any area where XVI seems to be gaining ground should be posted with
additional air patrols, and we should be on the lookout for any attempts
by the aliens to solidify their hold on the ground. Alien activity
reports in this area should be investigated and responded to with
extreme prejudice.

Distinti saluti,

Col. Falkland

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`The Enemy On Earth`](Aliens/The_Enemy_On_Earth "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Human Vaccine -- URGENT`](Research/Human_Vaccine_--_URGENT "wikilink")
` `

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")