# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Electrolaser

Commander, I have a new research proposal for you, something you might
find interesting. Please hear me out.

You know the drawbacks of Connor's stun rod have been a serious concern
of mine from the very first proposal onward. Putting our soldiers in
extreme danger to capture some biological specimens can't possibly be
worth the risk. That's why we at DivEngine have been investigating
possible alternatives, and we've now arrived at a proposal that's going
to be both technologically feasible and combat-effective.

I'd like to combine the stun rod research with our work on the new
generation of lasers to create a beefed-up electrolaser -- a lightning
gun -- of unprecedented power. Imagine all the power of a stun rod
deployed at range without ever having to approach the target!

With funding and lab time we can really make this work, Commander. It'll
give our troops a much better fighting chance when we need to capture
instead of kill.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Electrolaser

Commander, I'd like to report that we've successfully prototyped the new
electrolaser design and have approved final plans for a production
model. We can now begin to utilise it in combat. As per usual, I've
written up the specs and deployment advice here for you.

From a technical standpoint, the electrolaser works on almost the same
principles as natural lightning. It pumps electricity through a channel
of ionised air -- what we refer to as a 'plasma channel' -- that is more
conductive than the air around it, allowing the electricity to arc all
the way to the target and then earth itself, causing severe shock
damage. This plasma channel is created by a short, high-powered laser
pulse which causes the air to begin ionising

Electrolasers are a tried and true concept on Earth. They have a history
of use going back several decades as less-than-lethal weapons. At their
most basic, they are a 'taser without the wires', but until now they've
suffered serious limitations due to battery capacity and the power
levels required to knock out a soldier in insulated body armour. For
this reason they've only ever been developed practically as single-shot
disposables and close-range civilian weapons. Thanks to the output of
our deuterium-fluoride lasers and energy systems, though, we've been
able to go a lot further than that.

Our electrolaser can project a stable plasma channel at short to medium
ranges, depending on atmospheric conditions, and deliver previously
unheard-of voltages to the target. It is effective against both organic
and robotic enemies. It can be toggled to different power levels
depending on the needs of the moment, from a simple stunning shock to
full-blown electrocution which can kill weaker targets outright.

Now for the cons.

The more powerful electrical systems and laser equipment have increased
size and weight considerably compared to the stun rod. Another, more
practical issue is the power unit. We couldn't quite achieve the desired
power output profile using our standard deuterium-fluoride cartridges,
so we've had to make adjustments to the ammunition package itself. I'm
afraid this means that ammunition for the electrolaser is NOT
interchangeable with ammunition for our regular laser weaponry.

Of course, no matter what the drawbacks might be, performance is
light-years ahead of Dr. Connor's stun rod. I highly recommend we
replace all stun rods currently in use with electrolasers as soon as
humanly possible. For the sake of our troops, if nothing else.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [stun](Damage/stun_electro "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Heavy Laser](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Heavy_Laser "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High accuracy.

2\) Good damage on Electrocute firemode.

*Con:*

1\) Cannot shoot through smoke/gas/fire.

2\) Small magazines.

3\) Short range.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Stun Rod`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Stun_Rod "wikilink")
` `[`D-F Cartridge`](Equipment/Ammunition/D-F_Cartridge "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Electrolaser`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")