# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Fighter

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. Recovering a Fighter-class UFO has been one of
the things we at DivEngine have been praying for. This is the first
armed combat UFO that PHALANX has observed; it is vital that we study
these alien craft and weapons and learn their weaknesses, if they have
any.

We're ready to start studying and dismantling the craft whenever you
say, but we will need some lab time and funding to make a proper
assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Fighter

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

The Fighter craft seems to serve the role of escort to alien harvesting
expeditions and similar operations. It is frequently deployed as a
Harvester UFO's fighter wing, or even as a diversion to mask some other
mission somewhere else.

Though less manoeuvrable than the Scout craft, it is significantly
faster, with a tougher airframe and large claw-like heat exchangers on
the side to compensate for the increased power of the antimatter
engines. It mounts a single weapons system under the nose of the craft.
This weapon, some type of high-energy particle beam, will require
thorough research before we will be able to make any conclusions about
it. However, it's obvious just from our combat recordings that this
weapon is extremely dangerous. It fires a beam of particles at a good
fraction of the speed of light, giving it significant range before the
atmosphere can slow and/or disperse the particles enough to render them
harmless.

The crew compartment is equipped with 3 duty stations. We have studied
these intently and, as near as we can determine, they are designed a
pilot, a gunner and an electronics officer. Like the Scout, the Fighter
features no discernible communications equipment, nor does it mount
landing gear. What it does have is a large targeting computer and
holographic HUD to make the craft even more effective. These systems are
very interesting. More research might lead us to great improvements in
our own avionics.

Our analysis has led us to some new realisations about these smaller
classes of UFO. While faster than the Scout, the Fighter is still not
very speedy for a craft driven by antimatter rockets. From what we've
seen of the alien hull materials, the aliens could definitely build far
more powerful engines with their current technology. It seems the
limiting factor is fuel volatility.

The antimatter tanks in the Fighter are only slightly larger than those
in the Scout, and they are very heavily armoured; obviously the aliens
aren't taking any unnecessary risks. The few tenths of a gramme of
antimatter that a small UFO can safely carry seem to be just enough to
complete a planet mission and return to base. If the UFO does manage to
get blown up, the amount of antimatter in its tanks will not be enough
to harm any other craft in the formation.

Tactically, the Fighter is a real threat to PHALANX craft. They most
often operate in pairs, a lead craft and a wingman, forming a tight,
effective formation to protect larger and more vulnerable craft.
However, their function is strictly limited, as they aren't equipped to
do anything more than armed reconnaissance. The real threat will always
be whatever the Fighters are protecting. Fighters should never be a main
target unless there is nothing else left to shoot down.

--Cdr. Navarre

Estimated Fighter statistics:

*Size:* Small (9m x 16m x 4m)

*Cruising speed:* +/- 1,900 km/h

*Top speed:* +/- 3,600km/h

*Crew capacity:* 5 max.

*Weapon capacity:* 1 Particle Beam hardpoint

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Fighter UFO`
` `[`UFO -- Scout`](UFO/Scout "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Particle Beam Weapon`](Aircraft_Equipment/Weapons/Particle_Beam_Weapon "wikilink")` (OR: `[`UFO -- Harvester`](UFO/Harvester "wikilink")`)`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[300px](image:Ufo_fighter.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")