# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Hovernet

Commander,

We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. We should begin
dissection and assessment as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Hovernet

Commander,

My team and I have completed the disassembly and autopsy of the alien
creature we discovered. Here is my summary of our findings.

We first assumed the object was a robot, but upon investigation we found
a small biomass at its core. This biological alien core is encased in a
shell of sensors which we believe interpret its signals to operate the
electrical machinery. For all intents and purposes, this alien is little
more than a "brain" in charge of a complex device. Calling it a brain
may be too generous. We don't believe it is large enough to undertake
mental processes more complex than basic motor skills, but troops report
seeing it coordinate closely with other aliens on the battlefield.

The device itself is a small, but heavy, mobile disk, able to hover
above the ground. Because of its aerial movement, it is able to cross
the battlefield rapidly. Our soldiers will need to take it down before
it gets in range, which is no small feet considering its size and
movement capabilities.

The models we discovered are equipped with a mounted plasma weapon which
is able to fire single rounds. Anyone caught within range will be very
sorry. Given its brain size and limited functionality, we believe this
alien is engineered for light combat missions -- perhaps it plays a
reconnaissance role.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Hovernet corpse`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")