## Technical Specifications: Fragmentation Grenade

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The concept of the fragmentation grenade has changed little since it was
first conceived, when Chinese soldiers packed gunpowder into ceramic or
metal containers. It only solidified further after the end of the 20th
century. Improvements in explosive technology and casing materials have
made them a little faster and a little deadlier, but the mechanics are
the same: An explosive substance at the heart of the grenade causes the
casing (and possibly additional payload such as a layer of wire or white
phosphorus coiled around the explosive) to fragment into shrapnel and
fly in all directions at high speed, killing or wounding targets in the
area of effect. The delayed fuse is ignited by first pulling the pin and
then releasing the handle, usually released as the grenade is thrown. It
will detonate after a period of several seconds.

For PHALANX purposes, we’ve selected the Australian HG15 as the best of
the lot. This grenade is loaded with an extremely conventional charge of
C8 solid chemical explosive, an inner layer of coiled wire, and an outer
layer of thin plated steel. It's designed to maximise coverage by
putting out more shrapnel than any other grenade on the market. The
HG15's outer layer is smooth and unbroken, unlike the old 'pineapple'
grenades of World War 2, to make it easier to roll across various
surfaces. The C8 explosive at its core may be old in design, but it's
both highly powerful and can be counted on to work right under harsh
conditions. Reliability is an especially important attribute in any kind
of hand-held bomb.

### Recommended Doctrine

Though quite effective against enemy infantry, frag grenades are weapons
of opportunity, not a replacement for firearms or portable artillery.
Their range is highly limited and their casualty radius is small.
However, if the situation calls for close-range indirect fire or
something deadly thrown around a corner, the frag grenade is just the
thing.

Care should be taken that no friendlies (especially civilians) are
caught in the area of effect. In such situations the use of lethal
grenades is strongly discouraged; flashbangs should be given preference.

It's recommended that all soldiers carrying non-heavy weapons should be
equipped with at least one grenade of some variety -- be it a frag
grenade, flashbang, incendiary grenade or other -- in case the need
should arise. Two or more are strongly recommended.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")