# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Propulsion

Commander, the alien antimatter engines we recovered have been
fascinating my team ever since they arrived. With our new understanding
of the alien materials, I think we can work out the details and
duplication of this technology. Excitingly, it now seems to be within
our capabilities to replicate these engines, if we can just figure out
the function and creation of the different parts.

Along with Alien Astrogation and Alien Detection, Alien Propulsion is
one of the three pillars of UFO design. Understanding it will bring us a
big step closer to the ability to build an atmosphere-capable
interplanetary defence craft.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Propulsion

Commander, I'm happy to report the success of our alien propulsion
program. We've cracked the mysteries of the alien engine set-up and we
finally understand the path of the antimatter from fuel tank to reaction
chamber.

Quoting from my previous report:

(UFO Theory) "The alien propulsion system is a type of rocket engine
unlike any ever built on Earth. It uses direct matter-antimatter
annihilation to generate thrust by injecting protons and antiprotons
into the reaction chamber, and then channeling this explosive force out
the back of the engine. This gives a UFO extreme power and needs no air
or other gases to fuel the reaction, allowing it to burn in hard vacuum.
There is a highly-advanced cooling system continuously pumping liquid
nitrogen through the engine housing in order to keep it cool and reduce
the infrared signature. Engine heat is also used to supply the craft's
electricity."

With this project we've learned a lot about how these engines are
constructed, how to control them, and how we might retrofit them to our
current airfleet. We should now be able to replicate these engines and
use them for any applications we might come up with. I have to warn you,
though; they will be extremely expensive to produce. Between the complex
use of alien materials, the sensitive electromagnetics and the liquid
nitrogen cooling system, this really stretches the limits of our
production capacity.

Some more research may be required to figure out antimatter storage and
control, but the engine upgrades are self-contained units -- basically
just an alien engine with adapters on it for human tech. We should be
able to start retrofitting as soon as we acquire enough fuel to keep our
airfleet in the sky.

I've mentioned before, the power disparity between our liquid fuel and
these matter-antimatter engines is nothing short of astonishing. When we
start using these engines on our planes, our pilots are going to need
some serious re-education about the capabilities of their craft. Let me
explain.

In a regular military jet, giving her a little too much throttle around
a tight corner can result in impaired judgment and unconsciousness from
the force of acceleration. Pilots have died from over-acceleration.

In an antimatter jet, however, these problems are amplified
hundred-fold. The engines are so powerful that over-acceleration can
easily turn a human body to bloody pulp in its flight chair. Even the
craft itself may have trouble coping with the acceleration, and our
flight engineers will have to be extremely careful in checking for metal
fatigue, hairline fractures and other wear and tear on the airframe. A
tiny crack in the structure may result in one of our planes breaking up
in mid-flight. Mechanical thrust limiters can only do so much -- most of
the G-stresses are incurred during turns.

Still, it shouldn't become a problem as long as everyone -- pilots and
mechanics alike -- is extremely careful in their assigned tasks. We've
done some serious tightening-up of our safety and inspection protocol
just for antimatter planes. The retraining of our pilots is the only
remaining obstacle to our use of these alien engines.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Alien Propulsion`
` `[`Alien Materials`](Research/Alien_Materials "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")