# UFOpaedia Entry

## Message

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** A New Twist

Commander,

New information has come to light during the last batch of autopsies you
requested. Our reports stand, but we've discovered a commonality that
may give us some new insight into the aliens' diversity.

During our first analyses of the aliens' cellular structure, we
encountered some anomalies where our DNA replication tests would fail
due to unexplained sample contamination. We initially discarded this as
human error, but the problem has continued to appear with surprising
regularity. The same result, again and again; every time we run a sample
that hasn't been cryofrozen for storage, we have difficulty extracting a
single uncontaminated sequence. I spent some of my off hours studying
the problem, and I believe I've found the cause.

The simplest explanation is this: There are two types of DNA present in
our blood samples. The foreign DNA's prevalence is total; these
sequences can be found in every member of the Taman species, and closer
study has confirmed that similar sequences exist in the blood of other
species we've recovered. The source seems to be a kind of
single-cellular organism present in huge numbers in the alien
bloodstream. There are several versions of it, one for each species of
alien, and they all share remarkable DNA similarities. Interestingly,
although these organisms all have an identical number of chromosomes,
none of them can survive in a body that is not a member of its source
species. Also curious is the fact that there are absolutely no
variations in DNA between organisms of the same version. This leads us
to believe that the different versions may have been engineered --
wholly or in part -- to suit the individual species.

We now surmise that all aliens carry a version of this micro-organic
infection. The organism's function is not readily apparent. We've run
tests on various experimental tissue samples, both infected and control
specimens. The infected tissues do not appear to suffer any negative
effects -- or positive ones, for that matter -- from the organism's
presence. They are essentially indistinguishable from uninfected
tissues. Since the organism requires a living host for its own survival,
it seems to be either a parasite or a symbiote with currently unobserved
benefits.

We have dubbed this organism the 'EXtraterrestrial Viral Infection', or
XVI. This may be somewhat of a misnomer in microbiological terms; XVI is
a complex multi-celled organism far larger than any terrestrial virus,
but it acts and replicates exactly like one. Therefore we feel the term
is warranted. As each alien species carries a unique strand of the
infection, we have given them alphabetical designations after the source
species in which the strand can be found. Tamans have XVI-T, Shevaar
have XVI-S, and so forth.

The infection's purpose remains nebulous at this point, but it is the
only thing we've found so far that binds these diverse races together
physically. We can only assume that new strands of the infection were
engineered to suit each species, perhaps something that allows them to
coexist the way they do.

There is no indication that this organism is contagious to humans. When
injecting cultures of human tissue with fresh alien blood, we have
observed the alien blood being completely rejected, as expected.
Unexpectedly, however, any trace of the infection was subsequently
annihilated by standard human T cells. The organism was unable to take
root in the face of our immune system.

We currently do not believe the XVI organism poses a threat to our
soldiers on the battlefield. However, we will continue research and keep
you updated about any developments. A thorough blood screening of all
our personnel is in progress, just in case, and strict quarantine
procedures will be maintained throughout the lab.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` Any 2 organic alien autopsies`
` XVI progression activated`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`The Enemy on Earth (late)`](Aliens/The_Enemy_On_Earth_(late) "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")