## Technical Specifications: Fuel Pod

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Under the continuing efforts of the Excalibur program, we have scoured
the globe for the best components on Earth in order to fit our aircraft
with the equipment they need to survive against the alien threat. As
always, only the very best equipment has been selected for the defense
of our planet.

We've determined that the modular equipment bays on our aircraft can be
used to accept extra fuel reserves. By installing these special but very
simple fuel pods, we can greatly increase the range of an aircraft by
loading more fuel on board, and improve the craft's speed by providing
the engine's enough juice to run on maximum the entire way. It also lets
pilots make far more liberal use of the afterburner, further upping the
speed, allowing us to better compete with hostile UFOs.

Take note, however, that installing a Fuel Pod will add a significant
amount of weight to the craft. Care must be taken not to overload our
airframes. If an aircraft is too heavy to safely launch, our our Command
Center computers will automatically deny it launch clearance.

### Recommended Doctrine

We should make use of these pods in any situation where our aircraft are
unable to reach their destinations, where they may end up with too
little fuel to continue engaging a UFO, or where a large section of
ground is left uncovered by our network of bases. They will help to
extend our reach and provide more protection to Earth and our people.

Its only downside is that it takes up a whole modular slot that could be
used for defensive electronics or other equipment. This may leave our
interceptors weak in other areas.

### Addenda

Addendum, Executive Office Abel S. Howard, 20 March 2084:

Having read Cdr. Navarre's report, Commander, I have to stress that our
charter stipulates we must stop any and all alien activity on Earth. We
can't afford to let some of it continue because it's just out of our
plane's reach. If civilians were to die because the dropship couldn't
quite make it, our image would be shattered and our funding could suffer
the consequences. We should keep some Fuel Pod equipped planes on
standby to deal with distant incidents.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Skill

- ?

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")