# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Live Alien

Commander,

We have captured a live alien in the field! The creature has been
recovered from our last tactical mission and is being held in our new
Containment unit, which I'm pleased to report seems to be working up to
spec.

I don't need to explain why we should start research on this specimen
right away. The information that could be gleaned from it supercedes all
other considerations. Up until now we've had no chance to study the
alien mind, their thoughts and motivations, except through their
continued attacks upon our world. This is our first chance to discover
the aliens' purpose for humanity, perhaps even an explanation. Who are
they? Why are they here? What can we do against them? We can know
nothing without interrogating this specimen.

Please send your approval for this program at your earliest convenience.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Live Alien

Commander,

We have finished our first survey of a live alien specimen. The project
has produced mixed results.

The subject is certainly alive, and we have put it through an extensive
array of toxicology experiments which have provided vital data about its
vulnerabilities to various chemicals and bio-agents. However, we have
been completely unable to produce a behavioural analysis of the alien
mind. This is because the specimen has showed virtually no signs of
intelligence since its capture. It has done little more than eat, sleep,
and stare at the walls of its containment unit. It responds to physical
stimuli with reflex actions, aggression and/or submission, but we could
not coax any information out of it. Even simple hand signals seem to be
beyond the creature's comprehension. EEG monitoring reveals that the
seemingly highly-developed brain registers virtually no brainwave
activity at all.

It is hard to believe this same specimen could have fired advanced alien
weaponry at our troops during a tactical mission. There is no physical
trauma that might explain the regression. Perhaps its capture has
activated some manner of alien counter-interrogation mechanism; we don't
know. None of my team have managed to produce a viable hypothesis as to
the reason why. Certainly more research is required. We will keep
monitoring the specimen, and will notify you immediately if the
situation changes.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Links

- [Alien Breathing
  Apparatus](Research/Alien_Breathing_Apparatus "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 live alien in containment`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Anti-Alien Gas`](Research/Anti-Alien_Gas "wikilink")
` `[`The Alien Mind`](Aliens/The_Alien_Mind "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")