__NOTOC__

# Your base

<img src="base-2.4.jpg" title="base-2.4.jpg" width="256"
alt="base-2.4.jpg" /> Your bases have to fulfil a wide range of tasks as
most of the progress in the fight against the aliens will come from the
PHALANX project itself. The bases will supportresearching, producing new
equipment, gathering background information on the invaders and
supplying soldiers and aircrafts to counter any alien attack, be it on
the ground or in the air.

The base management screen is shown when you click on a base on the
Geoscape. It shows the map of the installations and various informations
about the employees living there, storage rooms etc.

Your bases are run independently and must all be supplied with
employees, equipments and facilities. Communicating between bases is not
that easy but there is still a way to transfer employees and equipments
from a base to an other.

## Base name

![](Base_rename_switch.jpg "Base_rename_switch.jpg") The current base
name is shown on the top of the screen. You can edit it by clicking
pen-icon right next to it. With the arrow icons you can also circle
through all your current bases.

## Base map

The main part of the screen shows your installations. Left clicking on a
building will bring you to the according management screen as it can be
done by the right buttons. Right clicking on a building will ask you to
confirm the destruction of it.

New bases can be built on the Geoscape, so you don't need to place all
non-vital facilities in one site. Doing so would be problematic, as
space is limited. But be warned that new facilities can be build only
next to an other one. Each facility also have its monthly running costs.

### Vital buildings

Please keep in mind that there are three elementary buildings needed in
each base before the base is functional at all. These are: an Entrance
which is pre-built for each new base, a Power Plant and the Command
Center.

|                                  |                                |                                      |
|----------------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| ![](Entrance.png "Entrance.png") | ![](Command.png "Command.png") | ![](Powerplant.png "Powerplant.png") |

### Functionnal buildings

#### Living quarters

![](Quarters.png "Quarters.png")Living quarters are required for
employees to live in the base. Without them you can only have an
automatically run base. Building multiple quarters will give more room
for employees.

The occupation is shown at the bottom of the right panel.

#### Storage

![](Storage.png "Storage.png")Have room to store your equipment and
bring some from the battlefield. The more storage you have, the more
equipment you can store in the base.

Your current storage use is shown at the bottom of the right panel.

#### Hospital

![](Hospital.png "Hospital.png")An hospital is required for wounded
soldiers to reitaliate from battle between missions.

#### Laboratory

![](Lab.png "Lab.png")A laboratory is required in order for sciencists
to run their researches. You will require more laboratories if you have
hired a lot of sciencists.

The laboratory usage is shown at the bottom of the right panel.

#### Workshop

![](Workshop.png "Workshop.png")A worshop is required for your engineers
to build new equipments. If you have many of them, you may require more
than one.

The workshop usage is show at the bottom of the right panel.

### Interception buildings

#### Small hangar

A small hangar can store and maintain a small aircraft. For the aircraft
to operate you will require to hire a pilot.

#### Large hangar

Large hangars stores a small or big aircraft.

#### Radar

![](Radar.png "Radar.png")A radar will add sensors all around your base
and activate UFO detection. It can work without employee but still
requires the vital buildings to operate.

### Defense buildings

#### Missile battery

A missile battery can hold a missile launcher than must be bought or
build in a workshop. Once installed it will defend the base in case of
attack and can also assist interceptors around the base by shooting at
UFO's passing nearby.