# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: The Alien Mind

Commander,

Though we've achieved limited results so far, research must continue on
our alien captives. There's a number of experiments we'd like to run
that require your authorisation for lab time and funding. I assure you
this is not blue-sky research; with enough tests and behavioural data,
we may be able to figure out a way to communicate with these aliens,
perhaps even reawaken their intelligence somehow. We don't know what the
results of the program will be -- we simply know too little about these
aliens, our body of data is far too small to make any predictions at
this point. What we do know is that every tidbit we learn about alien
psychology is a valuable piece of the puzzle.

On a personal note, I'm convinced they must know *something*, Commander.
The trick is in getting it out of them, and we're by God going to do it.

My team and I are all eagerly awaiting your approval for the program.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: The Alien Mind

Commander,

My team has finished conducting a number of tests on our captives that
have shed some light on the aliens' behaviour.

In one experiment, an alien specimen was given a box of food, sealed by
a two-digit number lock. The subject took six hours to find the right
combination by trial and error. This places the alien's IQ well below
most large terrestrial mammals; however, when other subjects in the
Containment were given the same task, with exactly the same lock, they
all immediately input the right combination on their first attempt
without having been exposed to the first specimen's attempts. We know
how this looks, Commander, but I assure you my team and I have been
thoroughly conscientious about security and separation. The aliens have
not been allowed to communicate in any way. We're not yet willing to
commit to any definite hypothesis about these events, though we're
working on it.

Unfortunately, results of our other experiments have been inconclusive
at best. Various ways of communication have been attempted without
success. Despite having fully functional vocal cords and/or working
hands, they do not seem to speak or sign in any sense that we
understand. Pheromone communication has had no effect beyond simple
physical reactions. The large biological disparity between alien species
also creates its own share of problems with containment and
communication -- please refer to the alien autopsy reports for more
details on individual alien physiology.

Nevertheless, I believe we're making progress, however slowly.
Communication with the aliens is certainly within the realm of
possibility. Our studies confirm that all alien specimens react to
external stimuli. This means that we can *make* them respond, one way or
another. Dr. Yamamura is currently working on teaching an isolated group
how to express desire, acknowledgement and denial. Their intelligence is
too limited to attempt anything more sophisticated at the moment. Once
the subjects have mastered these basic concepts, we will have some data
on the rate at which the aliens can learn, and a solid foundation upon
which to build. Yamamura hopes we can gradually raise their
communication skills until they can make themselves intelligible to us,
thereby spreading this knowledge to others of their kind who may possess
superior intellect and talents.

As always, I will keep you informed, Commander.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Links

- [Alien Breathing
  Apparatus](Research/Alien_Breathing_Apparatus "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 3 live aliens in containment`
` `[`Live Alien`](Aliens/Live_Alien "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Odd Behaviour`](Aliens/Odd_Behaviour "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")