## Technical Specifications: "Raven" ECM Unit

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Under the continuing efforts of the Excalibur Program, we have scoured
the globe for the best components on Earth in order to fit our aircraft
with the equipment they need to survive against the alien threat. As
always, only the very best equipment has been selected for the defence
of our planet.

Electronic warfare has been a part of military operations ever since
radar first appeared on the battlefield in World War 2. Ways of
defeating radar were constantly under development since it appeared on
the shores of Britain, methods such as flying below the height of the
transmitter, throwing radar-scrambling 'chaff', and in later years the
advent of stealth technology. It has always been better to have the
enemy detect your presence later rather than sooner -- or not at all.
Even better, your enemy can't shoot what he can't see.

Just like the Mk. 1 Eyeball, electronic detection and targeting can be
fooled, and the devices which fool electronic detection and targeting
can be fooled in turn. It's a never-ending struggle for superiority
which falls under the term 'Electronic Warfare'. ECM (Electronic
Counter-Measures) serve to protect the craft with which they are
equipped by jamming, deception, decoys and other such stratagems. ECCM
(Electronic Counter-Counter-Measures) on the opposing side try to
counteract the effect of ECM. And one thing is clear; the aliens are
very good at both.

For this reason, we have adopted the "Raven" Electronic Warfare Suite,
the most advanced ECM package available in the world, for PHALANX
service. It is the best humanity has to offer in the field of disrupting
enemy detection, tracking and homing mechanisms. Any aircraft equipped
with this piece of kit will have a significantly higher survivability
rate against missiles and other independent munitions. It's less
effective against aircraft guns, as their targeting equipment is
contained on-board and therefore can't be as easily fooled or jammed,
but even against these the "Raven" unit provides a noteworthy benefit.

It is very expensive thanks to its advanced electronics and takes up a
complete modular slot on one of our aircraft, but one thing is certain;
its price tag isn't half as high as the cost of losing one of our
aircraft.

### Recommended Doctrine

We recommend that every aircraft expected to go up against armed UFOs
carry either one of these ECM units or an additional skin of Polymer
Aircraft Armour. Even against superior alien systems the additional
protection of the "Raven" will help our pilots achieve our goals in the
skies of Earth. The expense may seem prohibitive, but the survival of
our craft and pilots will certainly justify these costs in the long run.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Skill

- [electronics](Skills/electronics "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")