Well, technical reports are usually written without any sort of personal
references or subjective opinions. I can fix this and extend with some
fairly plausible mumbo-jumbo, but I need to understand the relation
between the technologies. Is Advanced Armor Fabrics supposed to build on
Nano Technology? The feeling I get from the name advanced armor fabrics
is that it is built on conventional armor technology rather than some
kind of breakthrough nanotech materials. Nanites is a quite common (in
SF) name for small semi-intelligent or special-purpose machines, usually
about the same size as bacteria, which can reside inside the body with
functions such as instant repair of damaged cells (cure for cancer and
all diseases) or ability to repair wounds. Others are used externally
and have functions such as shields or enhanced properties of tools or
materials or can build almost anything from scratch.
--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 01:05, 21 October 2006 (CEST)

The new description is quite fine, but (as many other texts in this
wiki) is a bit too colloquial. (Wikipedia puts it this way: this article
seems not to be written in the formal tone expected of an encyclopedia
entry. :) Can we improve it? Also, are high-speed particles just the
tachyon particles? Is the proteciton against plasma so unique --- Nano
Armor protects against 50% of plasma damage, while Heavy Nano Armor
against 70%...

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 20:03, 25 July 2006 (CEST)

This is probably very outdated. What are nanites? Now tachyon is used to
improve nano with a shielding screen. See the description of Heavy Nano
Armor and Nano Technology for ideas...

Active-Surface Armor (outdated)

*Based on fullerine armor but thicker, heavier and incorporating active
nanites in the fabric of the suit. Under normal conditions the material
behaves like thick leather - however, upon physical impact the nanites
react instantly, stiffening the material of the suit to provide
protection equivalent to 10mm plate steel. Energy attacks are disappated
throughout the fabric of the suit and then away from it in the most
efficient manner available, either through the ground or (if not
possible) into the surrounding air.*

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 03:55, 17 July 2006 (CEST)