## Technical Specifications: CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've
concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on
population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of
engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes
of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons
for our Close Range Combat package.

The 425 Blesk is a miniature shotgun hailing from the Czech Republic, a
favourite of anti-terrorist and military reconnaissance units around the
world. It is highly prized for its small frame, manoeuvrability,
lightweight construction and reliable operation in combat. It is a
significant competitor with the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun for the hearts and
minds of shotgun-wielding soldiers.

The Blesk sacrifices versatility and range for raw speed. It is a 12mm
semi-automatic, able to shoot as fast as the operator can pull the
trigger; there is no other shotgun in existence that responds as fast or
as easily to new threats as the Blesk. In its standard configuration,
the weapon features a folding foregrip in lieu of a buttstock in order
to help the operator deal with the recoil of repeated firings.

Unfortunately, the short barrel cuts badly into effective range, making
it accurate only out to 10-20 metres, but this is usually enough for the
tight urban situations in which PHALANX will be operating most often. It
is also more than enough for a sidearm; the Blesk will fit into a
sidearm holster with minor modifications and can be set to deploy the
foregrip as the weapon is drawn, allowing immediate accurate fire as
needed.

The weapon chambered for the common 12mm shotgun calibre. It can fit 7
slugs in a handy pistol-style magazine contained in the grip, which
makes it much faster to reload than the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun. However,
it requires short shells that can fit into the grip magazine, such as
our flechette shells. It cannot fit the full-length saboted slugs.

There are only a handful of weapons that can compete with the Blesk for
sheer short-range devastation. Its speed combined with flechette ammo
makes for a deadly mix that can be relied upon to quickly dispatch any
enemy stupid enough to get into range.

For PHALANX use, we have given this shotgun the classification CRC-M9.

### Recommended Doctrine

All the restrictions that plague shotguns are magnified in the M9: short
range, low ammo capacity, high recoil. This makes its function very
clear. It is meant only for close-range firefights, where shotguns and
sidearms shine. However, M9 operators should keep a close eye on their
ammo level so that they don't run out in a tight spot.

While not technically designed as a sidearm, the M9 performs well as one
despite its relative bulk. It is a good choice for snipers or anyone who
needs a powerful backup for close range engagements.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [Flechette Shells](Equipment/Ammunition/Flechette_Shells "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")