## Technical Specifications: Flashbang

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

The flashbang is a non-lethal grenade that produces a blinding flash and
a deafening blast to temporarily confuse or disorient targets in the
area of effect. The grenade body does not explode or fragment upon
detonation. In fact, if the body remains undamaged, it can be easily
refilled and used again.

Humans affected by a flashbang suffer temporary deafness and impaired
balance, as well as complete loss of eyesight for up to five seconds
before the effect fades and vision returns to normal. This makes the
flashbang an excellent weapon for distracting and temporarily disabling
the enemy, especially when assaulting heavily-defended positions. From
combat reports, we've concluded that flashbangs have much the same
effect on aliens as they do on humans; alien targets are effectively
blind and deaf for a short time after the flashbang is deployed,
rendering them helpless. We can't say exactly how long this period is,
and it will undoubtedly vary from alien to alien, but it's still long
enough to make the difference in a firefight.

Aside from being a useful tactical tool, the flashbang will allow our
soldiers to get in close and personal without being cut to shreds by the
alien weapons. It allows the commander to choose exactly which weapons
are applied in a given situation whilst avoiding the collateral damage
potential of a frag grenade. A very quick enemy can take precautions to
negate flashbang effects simply by closing his eyes and plugging his
ears, but he will have very little warning and in most cases will
require special training to respond in time. From what we can tell the
aliens have had no prior experience with this type of weapon and have no
defensive doctrine against it. Even a prepared enemy will still be
distracted by a flashbang and could be engaged by fast-action troops
before being able to reclaim his weapon and take aim.

The flashbang's strengths far outweigh its weaknesses. It has served
with distinction in many wars before this one, and it will continue to
do so until all its functions can be replaced somehow by a new system.

### Recommended Doctrine

The flashbang does no physical damage to anyone caught in its area of
effect, and for that reason alone this weapon should be used over frag
grenades and other explosive ordnance during any mission where civilians
are placed at risk.

It is an indispensible weapon in any terrain that features large amounts
of available cover. If aliens are lying in wait and charging around a
corner might be suicide, the mere act of popping a flashbang down the
corridor can significantly change the outcome of the ensuing firefight
in favour of our troops. Its utility is not to be underestimated.

### Addenda

Naturally the flashbang is only effective against organic aliens with
eyes and ears.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")