## Technical Specifications: CRC-FL Flamethrower

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've
concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on
population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of
engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes
of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons
for our Close Range Combat package.

The Iranian ADA 22 flamethrower (nicknamed 'The Torch of God' by
Alliance troops) is a marvel of modern engineering. Unlike the old
flamethrowers of the 20th century, it requires no heavy pressure tanks
to be carried on a soldier's back -- the ADA is one unit carried in the
hands without any hoses or tubes. It simply slots a relatively small
200mm gas canister into the feed, fires its deadly ammunition, and then
ejects the empty canister to make room for a reload. The system is
ingenious and surprisingly reliable.

The muzzle of the weapon is a powerful pump that squirts gas into the
air, then sets off the gas-air mixture by way of four parallel spark
igniters, one main unit and three backups. These igniters each emit as
many as ten sparks per second in order to ignite the fuel before it
disperses. The backups are very important in preventing an explosion due
to the special fuel the ADA uses, a substance called Compound 90.

Compound 90 is a new flamethrower fuel that, when injected into the air,
creates a slow thermobaric reaction -- a fuel-air ignition rather than a
fuel-air explosion -- that can roast living tissue in seconds. C90
inflicts horrific damage on organic targets; the heat generated exceeds
1700 degrees celsius, enough to melt titanium. However, due to its
gaseous nature it leaves no burning residue (like napalm) on the target
or in the surrounding area and disperses its heat much more quickly.
This makes it significantly safer for urban use than napalm-derivative
substances.

The ADA 22's main drawbacks are its short range and its complex
internals, which are difficult to repair. However, our experienced
technicians should have no problem doing maintenance on this model.

For PHALANX use, we have given this flamethrower the classification
CRC-FL.

### Recommended Doctrine

The CRC-FL is a close-range weapon; the operator needs to be fast in
order to get into weapons range and unleash as much hell as possible. It
is also a rather weighty weapon despite its relatively slim design.
Strength as well as speed is required to wield it effectively.

Flamethrowers also make great ambush weapons -- just make sure that none
of our soldiers are in the line of fire.

### Addenda

This weapon should not be fired if there are civilians in or near the
target zone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [fire](Damage/fire "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [C90 Canister](Equipment/Ammunition/C90_Canister "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")