## Technical Specifications: UGV Autocannon Module

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The Autocannon Module is our first-level UGV weapon. Simple, effective,
and designed to minimise the collateral damage usually associated with
multi-barreled guns, it fires standard 12mm MMG (Medium Machine Gun)
rounds from an internal feed that links up to the UGV's own magazine
cavity. It is capable of holding up to 6000 bullets. These rounds come
in AP (Armour-Piercing) and FP (Frangible Penetrator) mods to satisfy
the needs of particular missions.

At its full rate of fire the autocannon module can empty its magazine in
twenty seconds. It comes with a full set of robotic targeting aids and
recoil dampeners to improve accuracy. When firing up to 16-round bursts,
the gun can deliver groupings on a target no more than 10 centimetres
apart, which is excellent for a gun of this type. During longer bursts,
however, accuracy drops exponentially past the 16-round mark due to
recoil and torque build-up which even computer-driven motors can't
compensate for, making long bursts useful only for providing suppressive
fire.

With excellent damage potential and terrific magazine capacity, this
weapon module makes a good baseline for UGV armament, significantly more
powerful and longer-lasting than anything our infantry can field. It's
just the sort of thing we're going to need in the armoured fire support
role.

The cannon is contained in a special modular turret designed to be fully
interchangeable with different UGV chassis. It will be able to be
mounted onto any UGV we build.

### Recommended Doctrine

Although it can be used in tight urban environments, the Autocannon
Module really shines in situations where it can fire across wide open
ground. Intense firepower combined with robotic accuracy make it an
ideal fire support weapon at medium to long engagement ranges.

Please refer to my articles on 12mm AP Rounds and 12mm FP Rounds for
more information on the individual uses of these.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

## Links

[12mm AP Rounds](UGV_Equipment/Ammunition/12mm_AP_Rounds "wikilink")
[12mm FP Rounds](UGV_Equipment/Ammunition/12mm_FP_Rounds "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")