## Technical Specifications: CRC-212 Riot Shotgun

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've
concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on
population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of
engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes
of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons
for our Close Range Combat package.

Many great shotguns have come out of Italy over the past two centuries;
the latest is the Rossi AAA, a semi-automatic combat shotgun developed
for use by SWAT and anti-terrorist units. It features several
ground-breaking technologies, but its most impressive feature is without
a doubt the specially-developed 'Twist' barrel. The Twist is a new type
of shotgun barrel that, with a sharp twist of the front handguard, can
protrude or flatten the rifling inside the barrel. With this mechanism,
the AAA can change its barrel from smoothbore to rifled and back in a
tenth of a second. The barrel even adjusts its own diameter and choke to
fit whatever type of shell is in the chamber. These two innovations
allow the AAA to fire any kind of shotgun ammo at a moment's notice.

The most commonly used military and SWAT ammunition is the 12mm
centerfire flechette shell. Each shell contains 8 tiny flechettes --
solid steel needles with fins to stabilise their flight. This ammunition
has superior accuracy compared to buckshot and performs excellently
against armour. The flechettes are also prone to tumble after
penetration, resulting in impressive wounding capability for such a
small projectile. Their drawbacks are vulnerability to wind conditions
and other deflecting factors. Other types of ammo are available to deal
with these situations, however -- and the AAA can fire them all.

In conclusion, the Rossi AAA is a highly versatile shotgun that is among
the most effective close-range weapons available. It has a longer range
than the CRC-FL Flamethrower and causes more damage than the CRC-8 SMG,
providing a good compromise between speed, range and stopping power.

For PHALANX use, we have given this shotgun the classification CRC-212.

### Recommended Doctrine

The CRC-212 performs very well at close quarters but quickly loses power
as the range increases. Flechette shot tends to spread too far to be
effective at range (though less so than ordinary buckshot), while rifled
slugs suffer a pronounced projectile drop and are highly susceptible to
wind conditions. Though the shotgun can shoot out to medium range, don't
expect it to be very effective.

Where this weapon will truly shine is in urban situations where the
enemy has little cover to hide behind and can be engaged at close range.
However, it can be too long to manoeuvre properly in tight spaces. The
CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun may be preferable in these situations.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")

## Links

- [7.62mm Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/7.62mm_Pistol "wikilink")
- [Submachine Gun
  (SMG)](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Submachine_Gun "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")