# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: 지속파 레이저 운용

Our collected UN research files have yielded a lot of valuable
information about weapon development done on Earth since the beginning
of this century. One of the most interesting topics has been the
production of DEWs (Directed Energy Weapons), weapons that transfer
energy to a target by means other than a projectile. We are particularly
interested in the files on Continuous Wave Lasers.

Many countries and companies have attempted to create weapons-grade
lasers over the years, but no one has ever been able to create a laser
that's man-portable and has a power output high enough to compete with
ordinary firearms. Now, however, we've been given access to all this
combined research, as well as whole libraries filled with the highest
technology on Earth. I believe that not only can we make an effective
man-portable laser weapon, we can make it into sizes previously
unheard-of for a DEW.

Commander, we should pursue this research as soon as possible. Varying
our arsenal will make it much more difficult to defend against, and our
experience may lead us to develop viable aircraft lasers that could more
effectively target high-speed UFOs than conventional firearms.

As far as I'm concerned, we at PHALANX are going to do the impossible,
and we can start doing it as soon as you approve this proposal.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: 지속파 레이저 운용

Commander, I'm extremely pleased to report that our project has been
succesful. I've included images of our prototype laser weapon, which
achieves continuous wave output in a man-portable package.

The practical solution did not lie in futilely trying to create bigger
battery packs, but rather in using radical miniaturisation technologies
to lighten and scale down existing chemical-powered laser components.
Chemical lasers have been in use for a very long time, and have been
part of experimental weapons programs since the late 20th century, but
they have always suffered many problems. The only types of chemical
lasers with real military promise have been much too large and
cumbersome for an infantryman to carry into battle. Until now their
combat applications were limited to those of tank-mounted laser cannons
or ship-based anti-missile batteries.

Now, however, we at PHALANX have built a conventional laser cannon in
miniature. Despite its small size it is fully capable of handling the
deuterium-fluoride reaction and containing the toxic waste products
without danger of contamination. Let me give you a brief description of
the inner workings.

Inside the combustion chamber, ethylene is burned in nitrogen
trifluoride. This reaction produces excited fluorine radicals, which are
then brought into contact with a mixture of helium and deuterium gas.
The deuterium reacts with the fluorine, producing excited molecules of
deuterium fluoride. These undergo stimulated emission in the weapon's
optical resonator, generating the beam. A series of intelligent lenses
then focuses and directs the beam to the shooter's aiming point and even
corrects for minor movement by the shooter or the target. The deuterium
waste gas is rammed through our custom-designed high-pressure filtering
system, which catches all toxic or radioactive molecules before
expelling the remaining harmless vapour back into the atmosphere.

The filter needs to be replaced after every mission, but we've designed
the system to make this easy and painless. If the filter system is
somehow damaged during the course of an operation, the weapon will
immediately stop functioning in order to prevent contamination.

The laser operates on mid-infrared wavelengths, so it produces no
visible beam except to those wearing IR goggles.

The prototype we built is unfortunately not yet ready for full-scale
production as an infantry weapon, since more refining and balancing is
required for human use, but the innovations we've made can also be
applied to vehicle weapons -- perhaps even aircraft guns. I've submitted
several new proposals to your inbox for the principal ideas we've drawn
up.

Let me know when you want us to start working on them, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Damage/laser](Damage/laser "wikilink")