## Technical Specifications: IR Goggles

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created not only to find the right weapons to
combat the alien threat, but also to find armour and other items of
battlefield utility to help our soldiers complete their missions and
return to base alive. These items are designed to increase a soldier's
combat effectiveness or general survivability.

Infrared night-vision imaging has been used on battlefields for
generations, and miniaturisation technology has allowed it to become
part of a soldier's standard issue for nighttime operations. Advances in
electronics over the last 30 years have allowed IR imaging equipment to
shrink to the size of swimming goggles with no loss of efficiency.

These goggles pick up all infrared emissions in the area and display
them on the inside of the lenses. They can be easily worn for the
duration of a nighttime engagement, greatly extending a soldier's visual
range in the darkness and allowing him to see targets through thin
walls. Thick walls present a greater obstacle and may obscure targets
inside entirely. Of course, there is no way to distinguish between the
IR signatures of civilians and those of aliens whenever we do not have
direct line of sight. Any readings taken through walls or other
obstacles will not be conclusive.

Our IR goggles will work even during the day, though their effectiveness
will be greatly reduced in daylight.

Unfortunately, this technology does have its drawbacks. Wearing goggles
limits the soldier's peripheral vision and reduces hand-eye
coordination, causing a slight drop in accuracy. They will hamper a
soldier's eyesight as long as they are worn. Worse, our records from
Mumbai confirm that some aliens with low heat emissions don't show up on
infrared at all. Detection range for these aliens will actually be
reduced, allowing them to sneak up on us if no other members of the team
are in range to spot the approaching threat.

In conclusion, these goggles will increase our nighttime performance
exponentially, making night engagements much more survivable for our
troops. However, they are not and will never be a foolproof substitute
for the Mk. 1 Eyeball.

### Recommended Doctrine

We should use these items sparingly and tactically to avoid costly
mistakes. It is recommended that no more than half the team wear goggles
during an engagement in order to avoid surprises. Two-man fireteams --
one man equipped with goggles, one man with normal eyesight -- are
recommended for maximum battlefield effectiveness.

Using goggles during daytime is generally contraindicated, as they lose
most of their utility in daylight conditions. The only reason to
continue wearing them under such conditions is their limited ability to
see through walls.

Close-range combat troops will suffer least from the accuracy penalty
inflicted by IR goggles. However, longer-range shooters cannot afford
this penalty, as a missed shot with one of these weapons may have dire
consequences. Snipers in particular will have infrared laser targeting
available via their scopes anyway.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Skill

- [mind](Skills/mind "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")