## Technical Specifications: Incendiary Grenade

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

Incendiary grenades are area-denial weapons, covering a large stretch of
ground with very hot flames that are almost impossible to extinguish.
Once thrown, the body of the grenade explodes, spreading the incendiary
compound over the surrounding area -- and anyone unlucky enough to be
inside the area of effect. The compound itself is a modification of a
mixture that has been in use since World War II; thermite, barium
nitrate, sulphur and binding agent. The grenade's delayed fuse is
ignited by first pulling the pin and then releasing the handle, usually
released as the grenade is thrown. It will detonate after a period of
several seconds.

The standard American M71 grenade consists of a core of C8 explosive, an
inner layer of incendiary agent, and an outer plastic casing that
provides no fragmentation but more importantly doesn't slow down or
otherwise impede the delivery of the payload over a large area. The
M71's casing is a smooth cylinder shape, unlike the old 'pineapple'
grenades of World War 2, to make it easier to roll across various
surfaces.

Like all hand grenades, their range is limited, but they can be an
essential tool for achieving control of the battlefield.

### Recommended Doctrine

Incendiary grenades are tactical weapons that should be used to contain
or herd the enemy into disadvantageous ground. They cannot be thrown
very far, but they can serve to block off escape routes, to flush out
rooms, or simply to catch the enemy in a blazing inferno.

Care should be taken that no friendlies (especially civilians) are
caught in the area of effect, as the effect of the thermate cocktail on
human tissue is a particular public relations nightmare. In such
situations the use of lethal grenades is strongly discouraged;
flashbangs should be given preference.

It's recommended that all soldiers carrying non-heavy weapons should be
equipped with at least one grenade of some variety -- be it an
incendiary grenade, frag grenade, flashbang or other -- in case the need
should arise. Two or more are strongly recommended.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [fire](Damage/fire "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")