I just want to know... Did "we" kill any aliens during mumbai? What
happened to the bodies? Will research on alien bodies get completed
without the player actually researching it? -Reenen

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Unanswered issues in the storyline**

There isn't much story, except for a lenghty future history lesson. The
US went bankrupt by help of Allah, maybe.. China nuked it's main cities
in an atomic civil war, the Middle East united in a superpower... but
where the aliens fit in? They attacked Mumbai with no details left for
us to know. Someone had a good point - did the troops killed at least
one alien or managed to recover some device?

I'm neutral to this alternative future setting, but I would like more
details on aliens, after all the name of the game is "Alien Invasion".
Forgive my comments, but it's ilogical for a developed invading species
to wipe out entire cities, and than leave, after they spent a good time
hunting down every living thing in those cities.

An other comment is that it's unrealistic, in case of an invasion (that
wipes out cities), that a small task force like Phalanx, is doing all
the fight and has just a poor squad with some spare weapons from the UN
arsenal. It would be much more "OK" if the player is just one of many
commanders that got the command of a base, and as time goes by you are
allowed to command additional bases, squads and craft. After all, when
the game starts it's almost useles to build a second base. From my
experience with X-Com, each time I have played I had veteran squad that
did all the hard work, because the stats took time to improve, and after
some time developed a second and third squad for easier missions.

What happened with the space installations - sattelite network, space
station... is there a human outpost on the Moon, did the aliens set
their base on the Moon/Mars etc? Or do they have a mothership in orbit
to serve as the last 1-3 missions? ;)

--[Sirg](User:Sirg "wikilink") 11:59, 10 October 2006 (CEST)

I'll let the detailed answer to Winter :) I just want to point out one
detail that isn't obvious from the text on this page; Most of the text
only covers the 'introduction' text ('storyline' part is a bit of a
mis-name) and background story. The details about aliens are coverd
(nearly 100%) throughout the development of the game while you play (ans
is manifested in the various resarch documents and alien-descriptions
int he wiki already). Concerning the 'unrealistic' topic ... this has
been discussed again and again in the forum and several ideas have
popped up how to 'solve' this. I suggest continuing the discussion there
will be a better choice (just search in the forum). But as i said, the
details are better answered by Winter since he's out profesional when it
comes to the story-elements.

--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 12:26, 10 October 2006 (CEST)


I'll be writing a UFOpaedia article about the aftermath of Mumbai and
the other attacked cities, once the remaining base facility descs are
finished. The article will include questions about the aliens' motives
and operational strategy, a strategy which makes perfect sense if you
know their objectives.

<!-- -->


'Giving' the player new bases as time goes by would make for terrible
gameplay, removing the entire finance management aspect from the game.
It's a very bad idea.

--[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 14:09, 10 October 2006 (CEST)

Regarding the idea of "giving the player new bases" as time goes by, I
was misunderstood. I wrote: the player will be allowed to build/command
other bases, and by this I meant that you can't build a second base in
the begining because you have to show that are up to the task of
managing one base and one squad, but after X successfull missions, etc,
you can "build" an other base if you want to. I think is great to have
an extra reward and ladder system, giving the player more choices as
times goes by and according with the player\`s results.

And OK, I will search the forums as you say... Thanks
--[Sirg](User:Sirg "wikilink") 19:17, 10 October 2006 (CEST)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Hi all, I really liked the new look storyline... There is just one line
that really is out of place IMHO: "Until it was rediscovered on 9 March
2084 by an old man who remembered reading about it in a dusty file in
his long-demolished office."

Then a whole woo-hah, before eventually you get: "until one aging
diplomat remembered the PHALANX project."

So who remembered it? The diplomat or the old man? My vote is just scrap
the first one, or add a line of an aging diplomat receiving an email
from his dad - (who is the 1st old man - who may have been the inventor
of the famed artificial spider silk).

--**Reenen** 2006/11/7

## minor text revision suggestion - The Commonwealth of Oceania

"Later, with the breaking of the diamond cartels in Africa, the
Commonwealth seized several leaderless mines inside its borders and used
them to their full. "

Full...potential, or fullest economic advantage?

Wehrwulf

## minor text revision suggestion - The Middle-Eastern Alliance

**`Pharmaceutical manufacturers packed up in droves and moved to the Middle-East, the only place left in the world where oil was cheap and plentiful.`**

I don't really get this point. I'm a biotechnologist. So why
pharmaceutical manufacturers should look for a place where oil is cheap?
It doesn't make too much sense :( moreover, this countries have a
too-much religious culture to be a good place for researchers.

You don't need too much energy to produce drugs. You need a lot of eggs
for vaccines and alcohol for mediums, but you don't have to obtain these
from oil.

## Suggestion for the very beginning of Storyline

I think, the SL must reflect the events of November 2008. We can pretend
that that attack was the training raid for HIV-infected Humans. First
raid failed, and aliens took a long pause for 70+ years to prepare new
strain, more appropriate for human being.

--[Troublemaker](User:Troublemaker "wikilink") 07:52, 21 March 2009
(UTC)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

...For a long time that city was named Bombay. But times gone and it was
more and more often called on Indian manner - Mumbai. Once that name
become its official one. On November 27, 2008 the Mumbai became an
object for terrorists attack. These inhumane creatures were the species
of Homo Sapiens, but who knows, if they were the Humans?

Police get the rid of these bastards. Some were killed, some captured
then judged. Some civilians, locals and tourists, also were dead from
different reasons - bullets, blasts, beating...

Events that follows (*point to SL's events for 2010-2036*) made that
attack just a grim memories, just few of many violent days of human
history. No one put an attention on the ease, with which the terrorists
occupied most of important objects of city. These days the analytical
medicine was much weaker than it is now, and no special tests were taken
on dead terrorists' brains...

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Streamline and Refocus the Introduction

Most of this information isn't really particularly relevant, and people
tend to generate plausibility issues with it. I would suggest that the
political background for each country only be entered into the game on
the event of the unhappiness of that country approaching the danger
point, restructured in terms of justifying suggested courses of action
which might help regain favor with that nation. Essentially these would
break down into whether they want a base (economic favor), more
interceptions over their territory (doing something about these
invaders), or faster response to incidents (prevent loss of life). Yes,
I realize that all of these imply "build a base here, dummy." The point
would be to add flavor during the campaign, not complicate gameplay.

I think that the introduction itself is mostly fine, if a little long.
You also don't mention the technologies which have made
trans-continental conflict temporarily obsolete (and thus caused
stagnation of military technology). I would include three factors.
First, development of "smart" weapons to the point that air space and
sea lanes can be effectively and cheaply interdicted by land
installations using missile batteries (whereas methods of defeating
these weapons are either prohibitively expensive or simply beyond the
remaining technical capabilities of what remains of the most advanced
nations). You could mention that the financial collapse of America
forced it to a desperation measure of selling off its most advanced
weapons technologies or whatever, but I would leave it at a simple
mention. Second, rapid deterioration of the global economy in the early
part of the century combined with a lack of plausible reasons to support
large standing armies for defense against air/sea invasion led to a
general shift towards far cheaper reservist and militia models for most
militaries. These localized forces vary in quality substantially by
region, but almost none of them have intensive training schedules or
real combat experience (outside of police and natural disaster
response). In our terms they'd seem like hobbyists (reenactors, even)
rather than serious militaries, but they are certainly more than capable
of defending a region against an aggressor stripped of any possible
air/sea support. Third, the mentioned development of thorium reactors
has removed almost all global competition for energy resources, as
plenty of thorium exists on each continent to supply that continent's
energy needs for the better part of a millennium.

Further, while intercontinental trade does continue, it is severely
hampered by the danger of high seas piracy, which no nation retains the
global influence to effectively police (and which several nations
covertly support). The various nations thus have little contact with or
dependence on each other. The U.N. (heavily restructured and simplified)
cannot really interfere with the continent spanning super-nations, any
one could hold off military invasion indefinitely from without and all
are economically self-sufficient. The work of the U.N. is thus almost
purely humanitarian and theoretical (dissemination of medical literature
rather than trying to send actual doctors and medicines through
dangerous trade routes, for example), what real disputes do exist
between super-nations mostly amount to interdiction of air space and sea
lanes overlapped by competing defense systems. Actually putting one's
forces in a position to get shot up by smart weapons was unattractive,
so actual shooting is rare. Given the overall lack of large scale
intercontinental trade, the interdiction isn't a significant enough
problem to require more than annual "let's be friends" parties attended
by high-ranking diplomats and virtually ignored by everyone else. This
information could be used to clarify the undisputed international
preeminence of the U.N. combined with its utter lack of practical
capabilities depicted in the "PHALANX And The Mumbai Aftermath" section.
I'd suggest removing most of the "secret history of PHALANX" material,
since it is a mostly secret history and it doesn't really matter much
(though it could be triggered by some game event or other as a flavor).

Bits of this material could be included in the UFOpedia entries for
starting tech, like the AA51 Cicada, which could be described as
"capable of 100% successful intercept and destruction of any known or
theoretically possible aircraft built by human technology." This would
be the endpoint of the arms race, a defense system that no human
engineer can even imagine beating. It would also explain why there's
only one available on the planet at the start of the game. That also
intrinsically explains why nobody but PHALANX can shoot down
UFO's...most air defense systems, though advanced compared to modern
standards, haven't been challenged in decades and thus have never
bothered to upgrade to meaninglessly over-powered technologies.
--[ChunLing](User:ChunLing "wikilink") 15:08, 29 May 2009 (UTC)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## A comment on perspective

Insightful comments. I'd like to add some reflections of own:

Evacuating the space stations and established moon base seems
implausible. Faced with a clear threat of alien invasion it would be a
natural response militarize installations like that.

On a more general note, having the background story and politics worked
out in detail is great for the development but I think as to what is
actually spelled out, the ideal is a fast-paced, present-time, personal
descriptions with any necessary background conditions mentioned
naturally in the passing, as they are natural knowledge for any
reasonably educated person of this time and age. I to put it bluntly,
the present articles feel a bit out of place in a compilation such as
the UFOpeadia because these broad strokes of history would be covered in
school books and the general news rather than what I imagine to be the
PHALANX operative briefing documents. If these things are to remain
presented through the UFOpaedia I would suggest a framework and style
centered on the operational significance of the situation in each of the
regions and events. (e.g. I imagine a historical briefing on the
earliest modern encounters with the invaders might have passages along
the lines of

"The earliest documented direct contact with the alien forces in modern
time was the initial attack on Mumbai, 3rd of March, 2084. (For a
historical account of evidence of alien presence on Earth up to and
including PHALANX\[hyperlinked\] under US administration (1955-2027),
see 'Historical evidence of Alien activity on Earth'\[hyperlinked\]) Our
reports of the Mumbai raid begin 06:15 when airstrike alert and
emergency broadcasts were triggered from Mumbai's garrison after making
visual contact with ships with six small alien vessels. The Mumbai
garrison comprised 260 military operatives, all of which lacked real
combat experience, like most of the world's conventional forces at this
time. Commonwealth military spending in the area had been decreased
steadily, at pace with the global demilitarization, but our Commonwealth
sources state the troops still in place were well supplied and had
regular training. Mumbai was still relatively heavily equipped with
fully-automated air defense systems and it has been estimated that they
should have been able to completely deter a moderate-sized airstrike
based on modern conventional technology. There is nothing to suggest
that remote scanner systems detected the alien invaders before the
vessels came within visual range, but military reports from the attack
are relatively scarce, as the garrison ceased transmissions by 06:19.
All local media recordings recovered were damaged beyond usability, but
remotely transmitted recordings from the military installations and
civilian surveillance systems reveal gray humanoid aliens massacring
humans and animals using primarily highly portable hand-held, ray-based
weapons. This picture is confirmed by the more believable testimony from
survivors. In contrast to many of the subsequent attacks on major cities
(see below\[hyperlink\]), the Mumbai raid does not seem to have featured
use of any alien battlefield robotics\[hyperlink\]." etc

See what I mean? Directed to someone who need to get up to speed on the
aliens, but with little fragments about the state of the world lurking
at the edges. (Sorry for posting without getting into the details of the
world construction properly, but I just know that if I set out to go
through the wiki and game first, I wouldn't get around to writing) To
offer some praise along with that, I really like the style of the
research proposal /report system. It does a lot for precisely this
in-role touch for briefings. Anyway. There's my two cents, maybe I'll be
back here when I have actually played though the game.

--[Mirari](User:Mirari "wikilink") 18:40, 9 July 2009 (UTC)