## Technical Specifications: Medikit

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Surgeon-Captain Helen Floydd, Medical Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

In the past, the application of first aid and field surgery in hostile
situations required specially-trained combat medics and surgeons who
could handle the stresses of saving lives under fire. Troops who saw
their friends being hit usually had no choice but to keep fighting and
hope the medics would arrive in time -- that is, if they didn't freeze
or panic or make some futile attempt at a field dressing without ability
or materials. If the wounded survived at all, they'd still be out of
action for weeks or months at a time.

This may have been a workable strategy in the trenches of World War 2,
but it isn't any longer. Waiting for a medic to arrive on the scene can
contribute to the death of a soldier who might have been saved by
immediate aid. The prompt application of trauma medicine needs to be
made as quick and easy as possible so that any soldier can provide
life-saving effort with minimal training. This is where the modern
medikit comes in.

Every medikit contains an onboard computer that can diagnose injuries
via directed X-ray and ultrasound. It can run ECGs and EEGs at the same
time, measure blood pressure and heart rate, and even calculate the
soldier's combat effectiveness based on his or her individual record
(stored in a small subdermal chip for medical, locational and
identification purposes). All this information can be shown in a small
hologram or displayed directly to a soldier's helmet information system.
At the same time the medikit can deploy a number of drugs and sterile
surgical tools for emergency operations, cauterise wounds via a special
heating iron, and -- most importantly -- apply its store of nanorobots
to a wound.

The old idea of medical nanobots was first put into practice by
Vietnamese researchers thirty years ago. Today, medicine without them is
almost unthinkable. Nanobots are tiny robots several micrometres in
diameter which can be programmed to perform specific tasks on the fly.
They will quickly sterilise a wound and seal ruptured arteries, alert
the medikit operator about any internal bleeding, request suction at
appropriate places, patch up bowel or stomach punctures, revive or
remove necrotic tissue, and repair nerve damage. They dissolve
harmlessly in the victim's bloodstream once their battery runs out,
which lasts no longer than 10 to 15 seconds, often not long enough to
stabilise heavily-wounded troops. Two or more doses of nanobots may be
required. Any number of doses can be applied and metabolised with no ill
effects.

This technology is the most important breakthrough in trauma surgery
ever made. It can do everything except regenerate tissue. If more
attention is required -- for example when a vital organ is hit, or a
bullet is lodged in a critical place -- the medikit provides equipment
and detailed instructions for the soldier to follow. It can never
replace the operating room, but it's as close to a portable hospital as
we'll ever get.

### Recommended Doctrine

All our soldiers have been trained in the use of the medikit. In fact,
in an ideal situation, every soldier would carry one for immediate use
-- but I recognise that our troops have a limited carrying capacity. All
major wounds should be treated without delay to prevent complications
and further risk to the injured soldier. If the victim can still walk,
she should retreat from the firefight and seek cover in order to safely
receive treatment by a comrade.

The medikit's onboard pharmacy can also be used to revive unconscious
soldiers. If this is done, please take care to remove the revived troop
from the line of fire as soon as possible and proceed with further
treatment from a safe position. The medic herself may be forced to
engage approaching targets to enable the patient's escape; this is
acceptable practice, but please supply the medic with adequate covering
fire. Trading one soldier's life for another does not make for good
battlefield mathematics.

Once a wounded soldier makes it back to base alive, our medical team
will take over treatment. The risk of anyone succumbing to battlefield
trauma while in a PHALANX ward is less than one percent, and as near to
zero as we can make it.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Skill

- [mind](Skills/mind "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")