# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: The Enemy On Earth

Commander,

My team and I are deeply troubled by the recent reports of human
hostility against PHALANX personnel, as I'm sure you are. We've all seen
the battlefield footage. There's no doubt that the attackers were humans
like you and me, but it's also clear they were using alien weaponry and
equipment -- some of which even PHALANX has never seen before.

The worrying questions seem to mount up. First, however, we need to
review the facts we have.

Do the aliens have active sympathisers on Earth? Yes.

Are the aliens supplying these human servants? Most likely, it's the
only reasonable explanation for their advanced alien equipment.

Do the servants present a threat? Absolutely. Perhaps a greater one than
the alien menace itself.

We need to delve deeper into what makes these people tick. If we can
find out the most common causes for alien infiltration, our Information
Division should be able to devise a far more successful propaganda
strategy, which could increase our number of volunteers as well as
decrease the alien infiltration rate across the globe. DivBio also has a
stake; we'd like to examine at least one live human prisoner in our
Containment unit so we can run a full physical examination. If the
aliens have bodily altered these people in addition to training and
supplying them, we'd like to find out about it.

Director Wong (DivInfo) also asked me to mention that, if we hold off on
implementing a new info strategy for too long, we could soon face
recruitment shortfalls and increased human resistance as the
sympathisers begin getting their word out. I tend to agree. We need to
keep this planet together if we are to have any chance against the alien
threat.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: The Enemy On Earth

Commander,

You need to read this right away. By your request, we've performed
several hurried autopsies and done our best to examine the live
prisoners taken on our mission against the alien sympathisers. The
results are alarming.

Do you remember the report I sent you about the first live alien
specimen we researched? As you may remember, it had lost all its
intellect and became largely unresponsive without fellows to empower the
hive mind. Prepare yourself, Commander: The human prisoner in our
Containment unit exhibits the **very same symptoms**. A thorough blood
analysis has produced conclusive evidence that the prisoner is infected
with an XVI strand.

This new strand is slightly different from the others we've encountered,
and we fear it can only be designated "XVI-H". It appears to be
willfully designed to infect humans with the alien hive mind. It
overrides their own rational thought processes and replaces them with a
direct link into the group, whether there actually is a group or not,
through a process we currently fail to understand. Our subjects run the
gamut of the human race; the infection seems to have no preference for
IQ or physical potential. The infection method appears to be a direct
injection of infected blood into the victim's bloodstream. It is
premeditated and ruthless. Any amount of shared blood is enough for the
infection to take root.

Quarantine procedures have been tightened to the absolute maximum, and
we're rushing another full batch of tests on all our personnel. Our
field agents remain clean, thank God -- just think if we'd gone into a
combat zone with soldiers capable of turning on their teammates at any
moment! -- but I fear we have found one conclusive result. It's Dr.
Eisenhower, our Director of Administration. He's been away on holiday
since last week, but we ran an older sample which has now come up
positive. We don't know when or how he was subverted or if he even
joined PHALANX with honourable intentions, but it's clear he has acted
as an alien spy for some weeks. Unfortunately we can't seem to find him
at his announced destination. Internal Security has taken charge of his
workstation and is in the process of information control.

Things are a bit hectic right now. Dr. Eisenhower's infection implies
that other members of a hive mind -- human or alien -- were in close
enough proximity to allow him to function at human intelligence. He
could have linked up with our subjects in Containment, or a nearby alien
cell, or even other infiltrators inside our base. Right now, we don't
know, and we most likely never will. We're all frightened in the Bio
lab. My assistant has been jumping at shadows all day.

Commander, we **must** develop a vaccine against XVI-H as soon as
possible. The danger of our soldiers and salvage technicians falling
victim to the infection in the field is too great to ignore even for a
moment. I hereby request your permission to start work on a vaccine
immediately. Please, please respond at your earliest convenience.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` Player attacked by humans`
` `[`A New Twist`](Storyline/A_New_Twist_(early) "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")