## Blueprints -- Command Centre

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 30 July 2027

By: Dr. Richard Strohm, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Command.png "Command.png")To any noble personages reading this
report -- yeah, right -- I should warn you that I'm somewhat drunk and
am dictating the last of my paperwork before they close the base down
forever. And I'll probably be long-dead before anyone digs up any info
about this old project, so I can't get in trouble for whatever I say
here. Just for the record, the bastarding SecDef can get buggered with a
chainsaw. 'Budget cuts' my ass.

Anyway, we've made some upgrades to the CC lately, so I've got to submit
a new report.

The Command Centre is the nerve centre of any PHALANX base. It
coordinates all base activity from research to engineering, it gathers
and interprets data from our radar installations, it serves as a war
room for mission planning, and it is the C3
(Command/Control/Communications) hub that launches and directs our
air-to-air interceptions. A base can still operate without a functional
Command Centre, but it would be blind, deaf and dumb; our interceptors
couldn't even launch for lack of traffic control.

The CC is packed floor to ceiling with a brand new H-9000 mainframe and
state-of-the-art communications gear, all of which is being ripped out
by a gang of jackhammer-equipped thugs even as we speak. This equipment
can't function without a power plant to supply it with enough
electricity.

In my experience, most of the command staff actually lives in the CC,
but I'm told that lower-ranking individuals do get to see their bunks
once every few days. Speaking for myself, though, that's anecdotal
evidence at best.

### Recommended Doctrine

In the unlikely event that this type of installation is ever built
again, keep it supplied with enough power to run it properly, and place
it in a well-protected spot some distance from the entrance and hangars.
If a base does get attacked, defending the CC should be a top priority,
because without it we will be unable to put up any kind of effective
fight until it can be repaired.

### Addenda

Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 18 March 2084:

The old CC blueprints have been updated by our engineers to replace the
ancient H-9000 mainframe and terminals with up-to-date holo-workstations
and a fresh supercomputer installation. All other components are still
viable and effective.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")