## Blueprints -- Alien Containment Facility

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Research Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 16 February 1958

By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The first priority of the Extraterrestrial Response Unit is to prepare
for a time when it may be needed. The PHALANX Containment Facility is an
important part of any invasion response plan. It contains atmospheric
habitation chambers, interrogation machinery, nutrition distribution
units, and all the other apparatus required to sustain any
extraterrestrial life that we could comprehend.

Firstly, the airtight habitation chambers provide a place to store and
keep extraterrestrials (EXT) for a significant period of time. Their
atmosphere generators are capable of pumping any individual chamber full
of any desired mix of gases. This can provide an EXT with breathable air
for at least several weeks, well beyond the expected lifespan for a
specimen in our research programs. Trace elements that do not occur
naturally on Earth may be difficult to come by, but the likelihood of
this becoming an impediment to our research is infinitessimal. In a
worst-case scenario, the atmosphere generators are designed to allow
links to recovered life support equipment.

Secondly, waldo-operated medical and interrogation apparatus is present
in each habitation chamber, able to apply sedation, medication or other
chemical injections via a pneumatic dart launcher, or to administer
electroshocks for interrogation purposes. There is also a so-called
"panic button" installed on each chamber individually and in the control
room for every block of chambers. The panic button can immediately
incinerate the contents of its chamber during an emergency.

The chambers and corridors of the Containment Facility are specially
designed to allow EXTs of any shape and size to be transported and held.
The facility also has a fully-equipped cryo-morgue to store corpses and
samples for later review.

### Recommended Doctrine

In the case of an invasion, the Containment Unit should be used to its
full extent, storing both live and dead EXTs for research and allowing
us to examine them in their living state. There is no greater priority
than the discovery of the thought processes of the extraterrestrial
mind, to learn their motivations and perhaps find a compromise, an
opportunity for communication, or a suitable counterstrategy to
neutralise the enemy once and for all.

If a PHALANX base were to be attacked, immediate consideration should be
given to hit the panic button on the entire Containment Facility. Unless
there are irreplaceable specimens in storage, we cannot risk the
attacking EXTs freeing their captured comrades. Immediate and complete
sedation is another, more risky strategy -- however, I stress that we
will not win a war with half measures.

### Addenda

To whatever future Commanders might be reviewing this file: Keep in mind
that the machinery in the Containment Facility, like a fair portion of
PHALANX equipment, has yet to undergo its true acid test against an
extraterrestrial force. Upgrades or adjustments may be required for it
to perform up to its design spec.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")