Will not get included. Please ask in the forums if you really want to
use it. Anti-gravity

Until a few days ago no particles known to mankind had negative mass,
although physicists have been able to describe some of the anticipated
properties such particles may have. Assuming that particles with
negative mass exit, this would produce a system where negative masses
are attracted to positive masses, yet positive masses are repelled away
from negative masses. As well, negative masses would produce an
attractive force on one another, but would be repelled because of their
negative inertial masses. Many controversial research project and
theoretical discussions tried to proof and disproof the existance of
negative mass, but neither side was 100% successful.

This mostly theoretical assumptions (since the partical part never
provided any proof) have recently been confirmed by findings in alien
artefacts. Antareans seem to have found a source of these particles and
not only use them in small 'flying' crafts like the hovernet, but also
in most of their (bigger) spacecrafts. Since no one ever though of a
good name for these particles (exept some SciFi writers) the scientists
who researched these particles named them NMP (Negative Mass Particle).
We currently do not know where the Antareans got these NMPs from or how
they may have produced them if that's possible. So right now we depend
on looted NMPs from alien AntiGrav equipment. Maybe further research
will reveal more on the origins of these particles. --- Text to put in
the research.ufo as a comment since i quoted some things from wikipedia
here.. --- The Text above is licensed under the GNU Free Documentation
License (http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html). It uses material from
the Wikipedia article "Exotic matter"
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exotic_matter). Mind you that the changes
made to the text are not proofable at all.