## Proposal

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

FROM: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

DATE: %02i %s %i

SUB: Psionics Research Opportunity

Commander, after analyzing the biology of these alien bodies and how
they communicate with one another, our scientists have started to
explore the possibility of us humans having the same capabilities. I
don't mean us having the same hive mind symptoms (God forbid) but
rather, the ability to communicate with each other via our minds.

I know this proposal seems rather "out there," to the point that
telepathy may not even exist, but comparing our knowledge of human
biology versus the aliens' biology, our scientists believe they can find
a way to enhance and ultimately, train our soldiers how to communicate
each other with their minds only. Not only will they be seeing what
other soldiers are seeing, but also, they will be able to defend
themselves from possible mental attacks from the aliens. The idea of me
being controlled be someone else is surely frightening to say the least.

With your permission Commander, we will start research ASAP.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

FROM: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

DATE: %02i %s %i

SUB: Psionics Research Opportunity

Commander, I am proud to announce that our research project was a huge
success. Here is the summary:

The human mind have always had the ability to communicate and even move
items ever since we have evolved to think. The reason why we don't have
this ability to a practical extent is because the amount of energy
required from the brain is too much for the human body to provide, not
to mention the extent the brain must be used for such psionics to be
possible. Therefore to solve this problem, each soldier will be given an
implant that will enhance the psionic portion of their brains and since
electric energy is being injected into the brain directly, the brain
itself will be able to tap into it's psionic ability easily. Also the
soldiers' brains will be chemically enhanced, so no erosion of the cells
will occur.

Our team has designed a facility specifically designed to train the
psionics of our soldiers.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

`''Prerequisites:`
[`Odd Behaviour`](Aliens/Odd_Behaviour "wikilink")
[`The Alien Mind`](Aliens/The_Alien_Mind "wikilink")`''`
*`Opens:`*
` Enables construction -- Psionics Training Room`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")