# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider

Commander,

We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. We should begin
dissection and assessment as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider

Commander,

My team has analysed the remains of the arachnid machine our operatives
brought back, and we have prepared a summary for your review.

Autopsy reveals that the creature is a complex robot without any organic
components. Its body is reminiscent of the terrestrial spider; a central
body housing the artificial brain and power cells, and eight legs driven
by powerful servomotors that allow it to move across the battlefield at
frightening speeds. It is equipped with razor-sharp mandibles which can
dissect human victims on the spot and store tissue or whole organs in a
large cavity located in front of the power cells. These machines have
been recorded cutting apart live humans during a terror mission and
storing their biomass for retrieval. The process is gruesome and very,
very short.

Our soldiers have dubbed the creature 'Bloodspider', and the name has
stuck.

Ballistics testing on samples of the Bloodspider's armour plating reveal
that it is very tough and has excellent insulating properties, making it
effective against a wide variety of weapons.

-- The armour is highly resistant to lasers, electricity and incendiary
ammunition, but it can be penetrated by high-velocity armour-piercing
rounds.

-- High explosives also achieve good results, as they tend to damage the
vulnerable leg joints. This may be the most effective way to take these
creatures out.

The existence of this creature raises some frightening questions. It
suggests that the aliens are taking a very personal interest in us, and
they're not asking questions. Commander, these machines pose a dire
threat to any human that comes close. If encountered, they should be
destroyed immediately and at all costs.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Bloodspider corpse`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Monomolecular Blades`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Monomolecular_Blades "wikilink")`, with `[`Alien Artifact -- Kerrblade`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Kerrblade "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")