# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Combat Bloodspider

Commander,

We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. It appears to
be a more deadly variant of the Bloodspider with which we are familiar.
Dissection and assessment could give us insights into the alien's new
capabilities.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Combat Bloodspider

Commander,

My team has analysed the remains of the arachnid machine our operatives
brought back, and we have prepared a summary for your review.

This creature is similar in many ways to the Bloodspider we have faced
before on the battlefield, but it has undergone upgrades to make it much
more deadly. It's razor-sharp blades are longer and its armour plating
has undergone significant revisions. These creatures are terrifying on
the battlefield if they get close, and this new variant is much more
likely to survive a few rounds from our soldiers and keep coming. We
will need to hunt the Combat Bloodspider in packs.

We can't be certain, but we fear that the armour upgrades may have been
designed in response to battlefield experience with us. If that's true,
it means the aliens may be upgrading other combat systems as well.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Combat Bloodspider corpse`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")