# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Kerrblade

Commander, we've recovered an interesting alien weapon from the
battlefield. It looks to be some kind of knife or sword with an edge
sharper than anything on Earth. It can slice steel like tissue paper and
goes through our soldiers' body armour as if it wasn't even there. The
troops have named it the 'Kerrblade' after the distinctive sound it
makes when shredding our armour.

We should examine the blade to determine its function and see how it was
made. There may be a way to duplicate this technology in a form that's
compatible for human use, which would make melee engagements with alien
combatants far more survivable than going at them with a combat knife.

Of course, this program will need your approval for lab time and
funding.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Kerrblade

Our analysis of the Kerrblade is complete, Commander. Here is my summary
for your review.

The Kerrblade seems at first glance like the alien equivalent of our
combat knife. Reality would be a better place if that were true. We've
concluded it is much more than that, and the truth is far from
comforting.

Crafted from carbon alloy and alien plastics, it is surprisingly light
and contains no metal whatsoever. The material itself is highly
interesting for our weapons production. No matter how much we abuse it
during testing, the blade will not chip, nick or bend. We think we might
be able to duplicate the stuff with some more research.

Its shape vaguely resembles the old curved swords from human history,
though perhaps it has more relation to something out of fantasy fiction.
It's too large, unwieldy and poorly balanced for the human hand. The
blade, however, tapers to an incredible edge; we have measured it to be
only one molecule wide. This gives the Kerrblade its fantastic cutting
power.

In our battlefield footage, we've seen the Kerrblade used with a
curious, long-fingered grip -- one which the human hand is unable to
duplicate -- that seems to indicate the Kerrblade is used as something
other than a purpose-designed weapon. The closest analogies we've been
able to find on Earth are those of a surgeon's scalpel and certain
ancient disemboweling tools. This comparison was one of our first clues
as to the true purpose of the Kerrblade. We put this together with some
gruesome camera footage from Mumbai, which was so grainy that we could
only guess what the aliens were doing, until now.

The Kerrblade is, in fact, an autopsy tool. It's used by the aliens to
cut up live or dead humans and extract whatever tissue or organ they
like. The large, sharp spike at the bottom of the blade is inserted into
the solar plexus, then moved upwards like a pair of scissors, or a can
opener. It goes through the sternum with disturbing ease. At this point
the alien will fold open the ribcage and rip or cut out whatever he
needs.

I wish we could just burn the things, but unfortunately they're too
damned valuable. Though not primarily designed as weapons these
Kerrblades are far more effective than any human combat knife. They cut
up aliens almost as well as humans. The grip is highly uncomfortable for
human hands, but we can adapt human grips easily enough. However, the
blades are too big to ever fit into the standard-issue PHALANX holster.
They can only be kept in a soldier's hands or in the backpack. This
somewhat defeats the purpose of a knife -- but obviously we have no
other melee weapon that even comes close in terms of power.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [Combat Knife](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Combat_Knife "wikilink")
- [Plasma Blade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Plasma_Blade "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Kerrblade`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Monomolecular Blades`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Monomolecular_Blades "wikilink")`, with `[`Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider`](Aliens/Bloodspider "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")