# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Breathing Apparatus

Commander,

During autopsy of the alien corpses we've recovered, my team and I
uncovered some peculiar machinery implanted into the throat of the alien
specimen. It consists of two metal spheres located on either side of the
brainstem, connected directly to the windpipe by way of a small tube.
The windpipe itself is protected by some manner of valve or filter. We
believe this interconnected apparatus may be some kind of breathing
equipment or rebreather, or even something else entirely; we're not sure
how it works yet.

I would like your permission and funding to examine these items more
closely than our autopsy would allow. At this point in the war, anything
that enhances our knowledge base about the alien threat is useful, and
we may discover critical clues about alien technology and biology.
Certainly we need to find out what the aliens breathe before we can
accomodate them in our Containment unit for any period of time.

Cdr. Navarre and his team will be assisting us on the technical side. He
has committed his full support to the proposal.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Breathing Apparatus

Commander,

I have made a thorough examination of the devices found during the alien
autopsies we've performed. I believe we're now ready to present our
conclusions.

From our investigation of tissue growth and scarring around the alien
larynx, we conclude that these artifacts are surgically implanted in an
alien's throat at a very early age. Somewhere during adolescence, the
child-sized device is removed and an adult version is implanted.

We've examined several different possibilities for the device's
function, from food preprocessors to suicide equipment, but the obvious
answer turned out to be the correct one. It is some kind of respirator,
allowing the aliens to survive in our atmosphere, and possibly other
atmospheres as well. Every organic specimen we've autopsied has carried
one of these devices, all with the same basic functionality, implying
that their constant operation is either required for survival on the
alien homeworld or that we are seeing only specimens which are intended
for frequent planetary operations. Certainly external breathing
apparatus would be easier and more economical to use if these specimens
were only intended to take short trips into hostile atmospheres.

The device itself consists of a sophisticated filter stretched across
the subject's windpipe, and two small spherical tanks positioned on
either side of the brainstem, connected to the windpipe by a small metal
tube. These tanks are filled with a gas mixture compressed into a liquid
state, functioning much like a scuba diver's oxygen bottles. The filter
mechanism is semi-intelligent; it scrupulously removes all elements that
are harmful to the subject, but allows beneficial elements to pass
through. The tanks are refilled by way of a small mechanical navel at
the back of the alien's neck.

An examination of the tanks' contents has given us our first accurate
data on the alien atmosphere. We now have several mixtures on record
that we believe will be able to support various alien lifeforms in our
Containment unit. A few of the mixtures are nitrogen-oxygen compounds,
very similar to our own, but others don't contain any oxygen at all. If
all of these mixtures are actively used by one or more alien species,
some of our enemies seem to breathe an atmosphere of almost pure
methane.

The vastly different mixtures are actually giving us a bit of a puzzle.
Surely it would be more economical to use segregated crews than to force
these species to coexist in the same place?

Future questions aside, I'm well pleased with our present results. We
can now store aliens in our Containment unit for prolonged periods of
time -- they will no longer suffocate when their atmosphere tanks run
out. This usually happens after 24 hours without replenishment, so no
delays should be afforded when we manage to capture a specimen.

My team and I are all looking forward to finally getting our hands on a
live one, Commander.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Taman`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")`, OR`
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok`](Aliens/Ortnok "wikilink")`, OR`
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar`](Aliens/Shevaar "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Stun Rod`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Stun_Rod "wikilink")
` Allows live aliens to be held in Containment`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")