# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Plasma And The Grenade Launcher

Commander, my team and I have drawn up a research proposal for a new tac
weapon based on our plasma grenade research.

Now that we're able to reproduce these alien plasma grenades, we've been
looking into the possibility of adapting the technology to be fired from
a grenade launcher. This would be a challenge, as the plasma hand
grenades are significantly larger than 25mm, but we may be able to
produce a scaled-back version that -- while not as powerful -- will have
all the advantages of being fired from our standard HPGL Grenade
Launcher.

If we can manage to design and produce magazines of this type, they'd
lend the HPGL increased firepower and even more tactical applications,
well worth the monetary cost.

The project is waiting for your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Plasma And The Grenade Launcher

Commander, we've finished the testing and prototype phase of our new
25mm plasma grenades. We're ready to move it to mass-production and full
field deployment.

For this project, we already had ready access to all the required
technology. We've made very few changes to the general design of the
grenade. The only real challenge was to shrink the complex machinery
enough to fit inside a standard 25mm shell. We've had to scale back the
power of the plasma grenade somewhat in order to do that -- the hydrogen
core of our new 25mm shell is a fair bit smaller, emitting less plasma
than the alien hand grenade. However, this is offset by the fact that it
can be fired en masse from our HPGL Grenade Launcher over relatively
long distances.

We've dubbed our creation the 25mm PB ('Plasma Burst') Grenade. We can
manufacture them by the box or by the speedloader, both of which will be
extremely expensive to produce. One full load of 25mm PB is essentially
an entire magazine of miniature plasma grenades, miniatures which are
even more difficult to create than the original.

The amount of firepower we've added to our team grenadier(s) is
frightening to behold. Launch a cylinder of these grenades into a
crowded street, and the only thing left will be ash. They'll become a
highly valuable addition to our arsenal.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [Frag Grenade](Equipment/Misc/Frag_Grenade "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High damage. 2) Large area of effect.

*Con:*

1\) Limited range. 2) Large. (1x2 inventory size)

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma Grenade`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Plasma And The Grenade Launcher`](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_PB_Grenades "wikilink")
` Enables production -- Plasma Grenade`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")