# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Supply Ship

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. Larger than any of the other UFOs we've seen so
far, it seems to be unarmed, and its large cargo hold suggests that it
may be a supply carrier of some sort, supporting alien assets on the
surface of the Earth. These craft can be found at the centre of many
alien formations and will drastically increase the alien presence on our
planet if we allow them to complete their missions.

We're ready to start studying and dismantling the craft whenever you
say, but we will need some lab time and funding to make a proper
assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Supply Ship

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

As far as we can determine, this type of UFO is indeed a transporter of
some kind, carrying materials in its large cargo hold and up to 12
aliens in a small passenger compartment behind the cockpit. Satellite
surveillance has observed these ships landing at alien-held positions
and unloading material and passengers. This is strong evidence in
support of the 'supply ship' theory, and we're confident that it's
correct.

We can make several conclusions from the UFO's construction and the
cargo we've recovered from the hold. Unlike other UFOs we've seen, the
Supply Ship is built for carrying heavy loads rather than surviving
combat. It doesn't manoeuver very well, its engines are weak by
comparison, and its airframe will break up easily when hit. This is why
a Supply Ship will often be protected by a large screen of Fighter UFOs,
in case of interception.

There isn't much that an alien cargo ship could be doing on Earth except
reinforcement and resupply. It will be bringing in weapons, spare parts
and other supplies from the alien homeworld to Earth in support of alien
operations on the surface. This should be prevented at all costs --
permanent alien installations on Earth would place the civilian
population in the area in extreme danger. A strong alien presence also
hampers our operations in many ways, some too subtle to observe
directly. The regular operation of Supply Ships in an area may indicate
an alien installation under construction or, worse, one that's already
operational.

On the other hand, if we can prevent any Supply Ships from reaching an
existing alien strongpoint, we may be able to starve it out for a while
before sending in troops. This may give us a crucial tactical advantage.

In conclusion, although it may seem of lesser importance than the other
UFOs we've encountered, the Supply Ship should be engaged whenever
possible. The long-term benefits of interrupting alien supplies may not
be immediately apparent, but it will show over time.

Because Supply Ships are likely to have escorts, it's recommended that
we only engage them with overwhelming force. That's all, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

[300px](image:Ufo_supply.jpg "wikilink")