# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Gunboat

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. Going by the extremely heavy armament it seems
to be some kind of heavy fighter or fire support model, its size class
somewhere in between those of the UFOs we've observed so far.

This is the first alien craft we've seen that is unmistakably
purpose-built for combat. What's even more disturbing is that it has
certain features, innovations, which we theorise make the craft more
suited for atmospheric flight. I think we need to have a look at this
right away as it may represent a significant shift in alien goals and
tactics.

We're ready to start studying and dismantling the craft whenever you
say, but we will need some lab time and funding to make a proper
assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Gunboat

Commander, my team and I have just finished another UFO report for you.
Here is my summary for your review.

We've dubbed this UFO the 'Gunboat', and the name tells you a great deal
about its intended function. Its weapons and armour exceed that of UFOs
twice its size. As near as we can tell it was designed for the role of
heavy fighter/interceptor, and it fulfills that role magnificently.

The UFO is armed with two particle beam weapons as well as -- very
interestingly -- two additional modular hardpoints of a design almost
identical to the weapon hardpoints on our own aircraft. It seems like
the aliens have actually adapted our design for their own use and may
begin using different loadouts on individual craft. If the aliens are
actually learning from us, we could be in for a hell of a ride . . .

Even more interesting is the Gunboat's armour, an improvement over the
standard skin of alien materials we saw on the first wave of invading
UFOs. This new armour is a composite layer-cake of alien materials and
various other substances designed to slow and stop projectiles from
penetrating. The basic principle is simple enough but the new compounds
have interesting properties which we're not sure we fully understand.
I'll see if my team can make anything of it and, if so, I'll have a new
research proposal ready for you soon.

The fuselage design of the Gunboat is still ostensibly that of a
spacecraft, but it has certain adaptations that make it much easier to
handle in atmosphere. It has actual wing surface generating lift, unlike
the small claw-winged designs which relied on brute engine power to stay
airborne. Furthermore, mobile flaps on the wings and stabilisers -- much
like on human aircraft -- allow the Gunboat to use the airflow over its
surfaces, giving it a much tighter turning circle, a far higher angle of
attack and a tremendous rate of climb compared to a UFO moving on engine
power alone.

Overall the Gunboat is fast, manoeuvrable and utterly deadly. It seems
to outperform previously-observed UFOs on every level; faster, tougher,
better-armed and more nimble. The only positive is that it would take
three or four times as much material to build a Gunboat compared to a
small attack craft and twice as much fuel to keep it flying, so it's
unlikely we'll see Gunboats in large numbers. My only worry is that they
won't need very many of these to pound us into dust. Extreme caution is
advised, Commander, and I recommend we spend some time and money
upgrading our airfleet as soon as we can.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Gunboat UFO`
` `[`UFO Theory`](Research/UFO_Theory "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

![](Gunboat.png "Gunboat.png")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")