# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Alien Artifact -- Alien Body Armour

Commander, we've recovered a suit of alien body armour from the
battlefield. This armour has been a plague to our soldiers due to its
very high resistance to various types of damage; aliens wearing it have
shrugged off shots that would have torn their unarmoured friends apart.
It's not surprising that we still haven't managed to cut it open to
perform an initial survey of its composition. We should investigate the
armour's weaknesses as soon as we can, and perhaps ascertain a way to
adapt it for our own uses.

This project will require a moderate amount of lab time and funding.
Work will start as soon as we have your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Alien Body Armour

Commander, we've got a full report on the alien armour for you.

It was something of a surprise to learn that the alien armour is made of
a composite of plastics and carbon containing no metal whatsoever. In
fact, the most important element is something with which humanity is
already well-acquainted: carbon nanotubes. Carbon nanotubes (also known
as CNTs or 'buckytubes') are cylindrical carbon molecules that are
incredibly strong, one of the strongest materials known to humankind.
They have been relatively little-used on Earth because of their extreme
cost. No economical means of mass-production has been found to date,
restricting their use to the most expensive programs on Earth, such as
aeronautics and space exploration.

The alien armour uses CNTs as its penetration layer, i.e. the layer that
stops bullets and other incoming ordnance from penetrating into the
body. The nanotubes are woven into long latticework patterns and
recessed into a bed of hard polymer, backed by a layer of semi-liquid
gel that very effectively dampens the energy of a blow and spreads the
remaining force across a very large area. The final layer -- woven from
flexible aramid fibre -- serves to contain the gel and doubles as a
spall liner, catching any fragments that may be blown loose from the
inside of the armour.

Thanks to the conductive properties of carbon nanotubes, the armour
performs very well against plasma as well as against ordinary bullets,
lasers and explosives. However ironically, it's not very effective
against incendiary devices or flamethrowers, since these weapons also
raise the atmospheric temperature around the wearer. In this scenario
the armour is left with no place to effectively dump its heat and will
not protect the wearer as he roasts inside his suit.

Other features of the armour include servo-assisted movement in the
boots, allowing the wearer to move more quickly, and a curious system
built into the bracers that automatically assists the wearer's aim by
selectively applying pressure to parts of the forearm. We are looking
into many new uses for this technology.

Adapting this armour to a human body would be impossible due to the
differences in physique and the difficulty of working with the materials
involved. However, I've written up a separate research proposal to
investigate the possibility of designing and mass-producing our own
armour using the alien suit as a template. It will be in your inbox
presently, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Nanocomposite
  Armour](Equipment/Armour/Nanocomposite_Armour "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Alien body armour`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Nanocomposite Armour`](Equipment/Armour/Nanocomposite_Armour "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Armour](Category:Armour "wikilink")