## Technical Specifications: IC Rocket

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a 120mm solid-fuel rocket fitted with an incendiary warhead. It
is fired electronically by a spark igniter inside the launcher's barrel.
The fuel is highly stable and resists concussion and heat, though it can
cook off if exposed to high temperatures for a significant period of
time. The warhead itself can spill its contents if damaged, but the
thermite mix will not ignite unless exposed to a very high-temperature
flame.

Incendiary rockets are area-denial weapons, covering a large stretch of
ground with very hot flames that are almost impossible to extinguish.
The compound itself is a modification of a mixture that has been in use
since World War II; thermite, barium nitrate, sulphur and binding agent.

Because it carries no onboard electronics, the rocket is impervious to
EMP and electronic jamming. All high-tech aiming is done at the
launcher. Therefore a properly-aimed rocket will arrive at its target
regardless of anything that might happen during flight.

The rocket is meant to be loaded into an HPML Rocket Launcher.

### Recommended Doctrine

All soldiers equipped with rocket launchers should carry at least one
reload whenever they go out in the field. Two or more are strongly
recommended. It is not advisable to send our troops into combat without
sufficient ammunition.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [fire](Damage/fire "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")