# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Aerial Laser Cannon

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

The Aerial Laser Cannon is the largest and most powerful iteration of
our new laser designs. Like our infantry weapons it'll be powered by
deuterium-fluoride reaction, but on a much larger scale and amplified by
the aircraft's on-board electrical systems. Several exciting ideas are
being considered.

As well as being the biggest, this may well be our most challenging
laser to create. Any aircraft cannon will have to reach across several
kilometres of atmosphere -- and therefore loads of atmospheric blooming
-- with enough punch at the endpoint to cut into a UFO's fuselage. Those
sorts of power levels have been achieved before with massive arrays
mounted on jumbo jets, but never in a package small enough to make a jet
fighter cannon.

The finished product should be able to engage UFOs with bullseye
accuracy at ranges well beyond that of the SHIVA cannon, and although
damage may be low, we expect that the ability to keep continuous fire
and pressure on enemy craft will be valuable in the days to come.

Please approve lab time and funding for this program when you're ready,
Commander.

--중령 Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Aerial Laser Cannon

Commander, I've just finished my report on our latest laser program.
We've successfully prototyped the new Aerial Laser Cannon and are ready
to put it into production.

We achieved what we set out to do: create a continuous wave,
deuterium-fluoride-powered laser with megawatt-range output, capable of
tracking and hitting UFOs at ranges of up to 5 kilometres. Accuracy is
excellent, hampered only by enemy ECM (Electronic Countermeasures), and
unlike in all our other weapons it is not affected by range. The laser
proceeds in a straight line and crosses the distance between gun and
target almost instantly. It's hard to miss with it.

Unfortunately atmospheric blooming is still a problem, and the laser
rapidly loses power the further it has to travel to the target. At
maximum range, 5 kilometres, it takes 32 seconds of continuous fire on
the same spot to hole a UFO's hull. We're rarely going to have that much
time to wait for a kill. The ideal range for this weapon is between 2 to
3 kilometres where it strikes a good balance between damage and
distance. Average damage per second at these distances is slightly less
than the SHIVA Rotary Cannon, but range is higher by up to 1.5
kilometres. More so than any of our previous weapons, the Aerial Laser
Cannon is ideal for driving and pinning down the enemy behind a wall of
laser fire.

The cannon carries an integrated magazine of deuterium-fluoride allowing
up to thirty minutes of continuous fire. Since deuterium and fluoride
are both too potentially hazardous to store on-base, and we have access
to large off-base stockpiles of all the necessary compounds, we will not
need to keep laser cannon ammunition in inventory.

Deployment of the weapon is at your discretion, Commander, but I'd like
to recommend we use the new cannons to replace SHIVA guns across our
airfleet except for craft specifically equipped for close-in fighting.
Anything that's much less manoeuvrable than a UFO will have difficulty
keeping hold of the target with SHIVAs, so the laser offers a far better
solution with nearly as much staying power.

--중령 Navarre

## Links