This is a placeholder page, pending a proper writeup. Some factoids
about this craft:

- We have a model for this craft. It was made by Pshawn. There is an
  image of it in our
  [gallery](http://ufoai.ninex.info/gallery/albums/crafts-and-heavy-equipment/stingray.jpg).

Psawhn's notes:

- The main engines are situated *aft* of the center of gravity. The rear
  thrusters are needed in order to maintain a level attitude during VTOL
  operations.
- The engines can rotate 120 degrees downward and 90 degrees upward.
  Each thruster can rotate 360 degrees, independently of eachother.
- Most maneuvers are accomplished by vectored and differential thrust.
- Obviously the craft can do a conventional landing in case of engine
  failure. There should be emergency flaps and other conventional
  aerodynamic surfaces to accommodate this, as well as high-speed
  maneuvers at lower altitudes.
- The craft is capable of reaching and recovering from low earth orbit.
  Pilots must be schooled in orbital mechanics, which are much different
  and often very counterintuitive compared to conventional flight. We
  don't want to strand pilots at 300km altitude! :)
- Because the craft is antimatter powered, there is a lot of free space
  in the large wings that would otherwise be taken up by fuel tanks.
- I have no idea what the raised and depressed surfaces on the hull are
  supposed to accomplish, aside from making the craft look more
  alien-like.
- Similarly for the green glowy bits. Perhaps these are heat radiators?
  Heat radiators are essential for *any* spacecraft, no matter how
  advanced. You can't trump the laws of thermodynamics.

## Aircraft Evaluation -- Stingray-class Interceptor

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

### Recommended Doctrine

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[300px](image:inter_stingray.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")