I suggest we put up the 2.0 final release. Are there any things left to
do? What about the particle stuff? I really want to get rid of these
2.0-RC versions so we can finally start a nice release cycle.

With the release of 2.0 final we can inform people that 2.1 is under
heavy development and has [LOTS](Changelog/2.1 "wikilink") of new
feature so they get something to root for :) We can sill make bugfix
releases for 2.0 afterwards (i.e. 2.0.1, 2.0.2, etc ...) if it is really
neccessary.

--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 15:27, 31 January 2007 (CET)

- I second. 2.0 has run its course, let's be done with it. Plus, we need
  another release to keep up interest. Do we have anything important
  that needs merging to 2.0? --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 16:46,
  31 January 2007 (CET)

<!-- -->

- I already wrote on irc my opinion about this, but will rephrase here.
  - Let's release 2.0 what it is now and close that branch completely;
    current 2.0 branch has a lot of bugfixes included since RC6; if you
    won't release "final" (or whatever it will be called) 2.0, the
    complete work which was put into merging bugfixes from trunk appears
    to be unnecesary, moreover users will ask why you call releases
    2.0-**RELEASECANDIDATE** if you do not want to make 2.0-RELEASE;
  - There is urgent need to do ANY release as soon as possible; users
    ask about it; users complaints about it; and even, which is worse,
    users complaints about already fixed bugs, because 2.0RC6 is the
    newest thing they can get (without compiling on their own, of
    course);
  - We could make new release from 2.1, but there are few
    unfinished/untested/buggy features now; so i would suggest to
    release "final" 2.0 NOW, and make new release from 2.1 branch as
    soon as some current issues will be
    finished;--[Zenerka](User:Zenerka "wikilink") 16:57, 31 January 2007
    (CET)