## Checklist from happypenguin comments

This is a list of checked comments by Irrevenant
([1](http://happypenguin.org/show?UFO%3A%20Alien%20Invasion)). I'll just
leave them here instead of removing them for later reference.

- interface annoyance: "*When you skip to the next unit, the screen
  autocentres on them. When I want to move half of them to the same
  location that's pretty annoying. It'd be good if there were a way to
  select without autocentring.*"
  - it is - see cvar cl_centerview - also accessable from options menu -
    [Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 19:17, 18 January 2007 (CET)
  - The only (small) problem is see with cl_centerview right now is that
    is seems to affect alien-spotting as well, or am I wrong?
    --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 11:35, 22 January 2007 (CET)

## Zenerka's proposition of things to be postponed for next release

Code:

- research system - as Hoehrer wrote there, this needs a lot of work,
  postpone
  - Some of it can be postponed, but some certainly needs to be in there
    for 2.1. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- aircraft items - relatively new feature, which needs a lot of work (i
  can do most of it, but currently i am focusing on other things),
  postpone
  - Yeah, postpone this to 2.2. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")
    19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- Alien Containment code - basicaly finished, move to changelog; i will
  commit minor fixes and additions upcoming days
  - Agreed. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- fix collection of alien artifacts - should definitely go into 2.1; the
  alien armor collecting problem is WIP and will be commited in upcoming
  days
  - Agreed again. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February
    2007 (CET)
- Bug \#1621538 Research from only 1 base - no idea how vital is that
- one-shot weapons - a _very_ minor thing, completely new subject,
  postpone to 2.2
  - Actually the plasma blade is already there, but doesn't work
    according tot he description. What do we do with the item in case of
    postponing? --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
  - I think this should definitely be in 2.1, as the aliens don't have a
    great number of weapons as it is. Surely we can adapt the grenades
    code somehow to make one-shot melee weapons.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- fire burning more than one turn - that would be very nice-looking
  feature and on popular demand, would be nice to include this into 2.1
  - this is already there - see rounds parameter for particles - the
    only problem is, that particles are not able to damage an actor -
    they are client side only. That's why e.g. the smokegrenade over
    several rounds is kind of useless, too (we have to spawn a new
    entity and wrote a think function for those particles - then they
    are server side, too) [Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 17:33, 10
    February 2007 (CET)
  - Just a thought on this .. wouldn't it make more sense if we finally
    define special properties to each 3d-square on the server (and
    client) side? So we can simply set a square on fire (or "smoke" or
    gas or un-viewable etc...)? This would help us a lot in the
    implementation of a "hurt" function for fire (no need for the
    particles do do the damage) over the rounds as well. Just a thought
    that I had some time, and it might be more or even less work, but
    definitely worth it. --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 18:57, 10
    February 2007 (CET)
  - This would definitely be nice to have, considering how many
    incendiary weapons we have in 2.1.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- Grenades have no timed explosion secondary fire mode. - with new
  firemode concept that should be easy doable, no? include in 2.1
  - Actually the new firemode concept does not have anything to do with
    the possibility of timed grenades (except for the fact that we are
    now not limited to only 2 entries in the firemode list). It is a
    complete seperate thing. That doesn't mean we can't implement it,
    but I'm none to talk about if/how it's possible right now.
    --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
  - This can be postponed as far as I'm concerned.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- IR Goggles - no idea how advanced is that
  - I don't think it's gotten very far yet, probably best to postpone.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- multiple buytypes - if no easy solution, postpone to 2.2; maybe the
  easy solution would be to buytype '4' which means (buytype 0 &&
  buytype 1)? should be minor thing to implement, i will look into this
  - This should be in 2.1. Otherwise the game will look very confusing.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
  - Agreed on the confusing part ... does anybody know how it would be
    easiest to do this? --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
  - I tried to play a bit with buytype 4 which would be combined
    buytypes 0 and 1; in general i managed it to work in several cases
    (flechette shells appears in primary/secondary production menu as
    well as primary/secondary equip menu), but not in all (buy/sell
    menu, dropping flechettes to the floor in inventory menu); after
    that i am not sure if this would be the best way to do
    this--[Zenerka](User:Zenerka "wikilink") 01:05, 11 February 2007
    (CET)
  - buytype 4 - beware, this is used internally as aircraft buytype -
    see NUM_BUYTYPES in cl_market.c [Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink")
    09:38, 11 February 2007 (CET)
- campaign editor -\> autoconf, yes, include in 2.1
- OpenAL - afair we need a developer for this, postpone
- fr \#1557828 improving skills by gaining experience - afair partly
  done, i will look into it
- fr \#1551014 Option to change language - that would be nice feature to
  include in 2.1
- real scrollbars - hard to code, postpone to 2.2 if it would block
  first 2.1 release
  - We need this in 2.1! The huge amount of text requires proper
    scrolling features, there's no two ways about it.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
  - @winter: You ever tried the scroll wheel on the mouse in in the
    lists? The buttons are just there in case s/b doesn't have one right
    now and most lists/texts are not that long as to need a real
    scrollbar. :) --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 19:29, 10
    February 2007 (CET)
  - Oh and in fact adding buttons that would scroll more than one line
    could be added with the code as-is if I remember the it correctly.
    --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
    - I'm on a laptop, man. I don't **have** a scroll wheel.
    - Scroll buttons that add more than one line are useless and clutter
      up the interface. We need working scrollbars, or at the absolute
      least scroll buttons that can be held down for continued
      scrolling. Forcing the user to click for each scrolling action is
      like going back in time to 1992.
      --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:45, 10 February 2007 (CET)
  - It doesn't add any more stuff to the interface, just click with the
    right mouse button on one for the arrows to scroll multiple lines ..
    in fact I just added that behaviour to the menu files (with a nice
    tooltip to show it to the user as well). It's an easy workaround,
    real scrollbars have to wait I'm afraid ... it might not be 1992 any
    more, but some of the code looks like it :( BTW: Why would you use
    the mouse/touchpad/whatever on a laptop anyway for scrolling with a
    scrollbar anyway? keybindings to PgUp/PgDown would be far
    easier/faster here (if that was possible right now).
    --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")
  - Cool, it *is* possible and I just added keybindings to PgUp and
    PgDown for all scrollable areas. No tooltips that show this yet
    though. --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 21:10, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- transfer menu - not sure how much work it needs (mattn?) but it would
  be very nice to have this in 2.1

Models:

- would be nice to have new alien in 2.1 - Hoehrer told me there is a
  minor thing to do with model, and intergation into alien teams and
  missions - would be great to do this to 2.1
  - Yes, some new aliens would be excellent. The Bloodspider at the very
    least, and hopefully rastaman's new alien as well.
    --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)
- if Protoarmor won't bring heavylaser texture in time, postpone it to
  2.2 either - the current one looks good enough to use
  - Agreed. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- microshotgun texture is done, move to changelog
  - Agreed. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- bolter rifle and machine pistol sound and particle - as well as
  heavylaser, if noone will do this in time, postpone to 2.2
  - Agreed. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 19:09, 10 February 2007
    (CET)
- those are really minor things in game but can be major to implement,
  would be very bad if we would postpone first 2.1 release time because
  of this

Artwork:

- I don't believe any of this would be included in first 2.1 if we want
  to release upcoming weeks
  - I think we should release 2.0 final over the next few weeks, and
    leave 2.1 for mid April or early May. This will give us enough dev
    time to get most of these things into place. I certainly can't
    imagine the 2.1 half of storyline being complete and ready for
    release in the next few weeks. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")
    19:09, 10 February 2007 (CET)

Please do not go rant over it, after talking with Hoehrer I would like
to know what is really vital for 2.1 and if we really want to make first
2.1 release upcoming weeks or not :)--[Zenerka](User:Zenerka "wikilink")
13:52, 10 February 2007 (CET)

- Actually the "weeks" part is not relevant to me ;) ... I myself just
  want to tidy up the todo list to a realistic amount of entries so we
  can draw a line when to say it is time (whenever that might be) to
  branch the code and focus purely on bugfixes and minor tweaks.
  Although if we can get that to be in a few weeks I'm all for it :)
  --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink")