I am just now preparing to add the UI to master, using the mod system
(/mods/ui2). For now, you can see a list of TODOs at the top of each
.ufo file (search for @TODO). I will be preparing more detailed
information on WIP here on a screen-by-screen basis in the future to
better facilitate those who wish to help me out. Many thanks.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 22:30, 4 May 2012 (SAST)

## How to see it

=

Note: I have just done a quick load test after making changes for bayo's
recent UI syntax changes. Some other things might be broken as well.
--[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 22:38, 4 May 2012 (SAST)


Thanks for the push. Please write the command line we can use to check
it ingame. I do some commit, but i dont check it.
[Bayo](User:Bayo "wikilink") 02:08, 5 May 2012 (SAST)


In Windows, I run the exe with +fs_setdir ui2. Mattn just added an
in-game command to activate a mod from the console: "fs_mod ui2", but I
haven't tested it. --[H-hour](User:H-hour "wikilink") 09:30, 5 May 2012
(SAST)


fs_mod is not for the commandline - but for switching to a mod from
within the game - +set fs_gamedir is still the way to do it from the
commandline. --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 11:42, 5 May 2012 (SAST)


Nice! [Bayo](User:Bayo "wikilink") 11:13, 6 May 2012 (SAST)


Btw. works, too --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 12:17, 6 May 2012
(SAST)

## Collapsable Element

BTW, about ), i think the right side can have a collabsable element (i
rememeber somebody talk about floating window for extra inof, i dont
think it is nice). And can also became the main menu for all the base.
Hmmm maybe it is already the case, i dont check the gui.
[Bayo](User:Bayo "wikilink") 20:40, 7 May 2012 (SAST)