## Technical Specifications: 12mm FP Rounds

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a pallet of 12mm MMG (Medium Machine Gun) ammunition, FP
(Frangible Penetrator) mod, designed to be loaded into the UGV
Autocannon Module. It can contain up to 6,000 rounds.

The 12mm FP round is a caseless, linkless machine gun bullet with a tiny
pressure-activated explosive at its core. This explosive will fragment
the solid bullet on impact, turning it into a hail of hot tumbling
shrapnel that tears through flesh like nothing else. One solid hit from
an FP round is almost guaranteed to find a vital organ or major artery
somewhere along the way.

The FP round is lethal on unarmoured or lightly-armoured tissue. It
performs progressively less well against heavier armour, though, and may
require multiple hits to weaken the armour enough for a single round to
get through.

Each UGV Autocannon Module is loaded standard with a full pallet of
6,000 rounds, unless there are not enough rounds available in base
storage.

### Recommended Doctrine

FP mod rounds were designed to engage large numbers of poorly-armoured
enemies. It should make short work of unprepared aliens and UFO crews,
although it may become less useful over time if they begin to employ
more armour on the battlefield.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")