# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Materials

Commander, as I mentioned in my previous report, the UFO we recovered
was plated with a highly interesting alloy which blends plastic and
metal together into a single material. These materials seem to be used
almost universally throughout the alien technology base. It's advanced
stuff, massively versatile and with a thousand possible uses.

I think it warrants the research to see if we can reproduce this stuff
in our Workshops, but even if we can't, it seems likely we'll be getting
our hands on large quantities of it with every UFO we salvage. We'll
definitely be able to find new, human applications for it that will
extend and expand our combat capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Materials

Commander, I think we've uncovered the secret to the alien materials.
After some modifications to our Workshop equipment, we should now be
able to use the stuff and 'program' it into advanced new shapes.

As I've mentioned before, the alien materials form a 'memory alloy',
remembering several shapes that it can change into if the materials are
given the right stimulus. Amazingly, the alien alloy can be stimulated
by two different things: heat and electricity. Heat is an obvious choice
to make the UFO fuselage splay out during atmospheric flight, to provide
better lift. Electricity, though, is a new one.

When applying electricity, the alloy responds only to a constant,
low-voltage current at a very specific amperage. The material's shape
will deform and stay deformed for as long as that current is maintained.
Once the current is switched off, the alloy will revert to its normal
'at rest' shape or a heat-induced shape if enough heat is present. The
electricity-induced shape takes precedence over the heat-induced shape.

This means that the shape of a UFO fuselage (and anything else made with
these materials) can be changed at will, either by a command from the
operator or by automated electronics.

This has given us a lot of amazing new ideas. We'll only be able to
develop a few of these ideas in time for use in the war, as some of them
would take years of research time, but they should nevertheless allow us
to build things we could never have attempted before.

Alien Materials should now be available for use in production.
Unfortunately, they require a lot of rare and expensive components, some
of which can only be found on Earth in trace quantities. There's no way
we could obtain the materials needed in quantities that would make
non-trivial production possible. We'll have to salvage what we need off
the aliens, because we won't be able to produce any of it for the
forseeable future.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`UFO Theory`](Research/UFO_Theory "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Alien Materials`
` Enables use of Alien Materials in production`
` `[`Alien Aircraft Plating`](Aircraft_Equipment/Armour/Alien_Aircraft_Plating "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")