# UFOpaedia Entry

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Blueprints -- Antimatter Storage

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The Antimatter Storage facility is designed to safely store antimatter
for later use, at least as safely as antimatter can possibly be stored.
It is based around an advanced magnetic containment system we've derived
from alien antimatter technology, which we call the 'inner shell'. The
'outer shell' consists of several radiation airlocks over the main
passages, a heavily-armoured control room, and a host of other security
and containment measures -- all designed to keep any radiation inside
the outer shell.

The outer shell's design borrows heavily from that of UN nuclear ammo
dumps. In case of problems in the inner shell, there's an automatic
security system which will lock down the instant containment drops below
safe levels. The facility will first close its blast doors, then secure
every airlock with tungsten locking rods, fill the outer shell
atmosphere with radiation-retardant gas and inject anti-shock foam
behind the walls, and then try to contain the inevitable blast.

This procedure will not give any personnel caught inside time to escape,
but that's the price we'll have to pay if we want to have a chance of
saving the entire base.

To understand how dangerous this facility really is, building an
Antimatter Storage at one of our bases will require us to list that base
with the UN nuclear site register. At full capacity -- 10 grammes of
antimatter -- just one storage facility will be containing the
equivalent of nearly half a megaton of TNT. While this isn't much
compared to modern thermonuclear weapons, it's enough to turn the entire
base and everything inside to cinders in less than a second. It's
difficult to 'blow up' antimatter, but under the wrong circumstances, it
can happen.

Even if no explosion occurs, a loss of containment would result in the
annihilation of the stored antimatter with the normal matter of the
containment system. If there were any fault or damage in the outer shell
at this point, then the ensuing blast of gamma radiation and high-speed
particles would escape and strip the area clean of life. The base would
be poisoned and rendered uninhabitable for centuries to come.

### Recommended Doctrine

I believe I've already stressed that this facility must be the most
heavily-defended building in any PHALANX base, taking priority even over
the Command Centre. Losing the CC would be a blow, but it can be
rebuilt. The cost would be a trifle compared to the kind of armageddon
that can result from a mishap at the Antimatter Storage.

Although this facility will be essential to our continued success in
this war, it's going to be very expensive to build and operate due to
the advanced tech and materials required. It may be necessary to hold
off on building one until we're sure our budget can stretch that far.

Having said that, until we manage to build one of these facilities,
we'll be completely unable to store or use any recovered antimatter. We
can't just build up a pile of unstable, alien, possibly-damaged tanks of
nuclear-level explosive. Everything we find will have to be destroyed
for safety.

Considering that we can't duplicate the stuff, we're going to need every
microgramme we can get our hands on.

### Addenda

None.

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Antimatter`](Research/Antimatter "wikilink")` (Automatically researched when Antimatter is finished)`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables construction -- `[`Antimatter Storage`](Base_Facilities/Antimatter_Storage "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")