## Technical Specifications: HPGL Grenade Launcher

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

First released on the open market in 2047, the Brazilian RA6 has
received numerous upgrades over the years that have kept it at the top
of its field. It is the most widely-used infantry grenade launcher in
use today because of its excellent reliability and low weight. It has an
impressive selection of compatible cartridges in the popular 25mm
calibre.

The RA6 carries up to 6 grenades individually loaded into a simple
rotary cylinder. The cylinder is hinged at the front and breaks open to
accept reloads. Reloading individual grenades can be a slow and
agonising process, but this is often the best way of going about it;
while 25mm speedloaders do exist and will work on the RA6, they are
bulky and hard to carry around.

The weapon has two fire modes; timed shot, which will detonate grenades
at a set time after leaving the barrel, and airburst, which will
detonate grenades in the air after they have travelled a certain
distance. The RA6's maximum rate of fire is one round per second on
semi-automatic, or it can rapidly cycle through its cylinder on burst
mode, firing quick three-round bursts that can devastate whole areas.

Standard ammunition for the RA6 is the 25mm HIT (High Impulse
Thermobaric) grenade, which is a 'fuel-air munition' that uses
atmospheric oxygen to generate an explosion instead of carrying along an
oxidising agent. Thermobaric weapons produce a far more powerful
explosive force than would be possible with conventional explosives of
the same size. They rely on explosive energy, concussion and heat for
their lethality rather than on fragmentation like most conventional
explosives.

This is one of the most versatile and effective weapons on our roster.
While not as powerful as the rocket launcher, it is a reliable support
weapon and infantry artillery piece.

For PHALANX use, we have given this grenade launcher the classification
HPGL.

### Recommended Doctrine

The HPGL is a tactician's dream come true. It has excellent damage and
range, can hit several clustered targets with one blast, and can be used
for special tasks such as area denial with incendiary grenades. It can
be as effective in close situations as it is in large open spaces;
however, different tactics are required.

The airburst mode is preferable for use in open ground; it sacrifices
some range by taking away the 'bounce' factor, but this also has its
benefits. The bounce factor can seriously foul accuracy if the grenade
lands on an uneven surface and can allow the enemy to run away or take
cover before detonation. Airburst fire also allows the operator to place
his grenades exactly where he wants them. Unless there is a catastrophic
detonator failure, any airburst fired from the HPGL will go off at the
intended spot with little chance for mechanical error.

In close situations, timed grenades can be bounced off walls and around
corners to reach dangerous or inconvenient places that other weapons
have trouble getting a bead on. However, care should be taken that the
operator doesn't fire shots that leave himself or any friendly troops
inside the blast radius. This would make the operator very unpopular
with what's left of the team. Due to the bounce factor on timed
grenades, they can also be a severe hazard to nearby civilians. Use of
the grenade launcher in situations where civilians might become victim
to collateral damage is strongly discouraged.

For close-range emergency work -- for example if the operator has no
sidearm -- the launcher can also be loaded with special 25mm flechette
shells similar to our shotgun shells. These have less damage potential
than shotgun shells due to their lower muzzle velocity, but they can
still be deadly in close quarters and, unlike explosive grenades, are
not a risk to the operator at short ranges.

### Addenda

Along with sniper rifles and rocket launchers, this is one of the few
standard-issue human weapons that are fully effective against robotic
aliens.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")
- others

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [25mm HIT Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_HIT_Grenades "wikilink")
- [25mm IC Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_IC_Grenades "wikilink")
- [25mm Flechette
  Grenades](Equipment/Ammunition/25mm_Flechette_Grenades "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")