# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Nanocomposite Armour

Our examination of the alien body armour has led us to many interesting
realisations. Obviously, the key to creating more effective mobile
armour based on the alien suits lies in the direction of nanocomposites.
This will require large amounts of carbon nanotubes.

In the past, carbon nanotubes have been difficult and expensive to
produce, and trying to work them into a proper shape was even worse.
Because of this nanocomposite armour has never been used except in
high-cost vehicles such as aircraft and tanks, and then only in plating
that requires minimal shaping or other work. The alien armour, however,
uses carbon nanotube composites in abundance. It's our manufacturing
processes that are holding us back.

With the alien armour in hand and enough resources at our disposal, I
believe that we can devise new production methods and shaping processes
that will allow us to mass-produce shaped nanocomposite plates, finally
bringing this technology into our reach.

This project will require a fair amount of lab time and funding. We'll
start work as soon as we receive your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Nanocomposite Armour

Commander, I would like to report the success of our nanocomposite
production research!

I won't bore you with the intricacies of CNT production; suffice it to
say that, by close study of the telltale traces left by alien production
lines, we've been able to identify some of their processes. Apparently
they use some kind of plasma furnace in order to spin, shape and press
the nanotubes into a latticework pattern. We've been able to create a
prototype furnace of our own, and have made various modifications to our
nanotube production methods based on the alien examples. The result is a
significant increase in power efficiency and production volume.

From here on I'll restrict my summary to the capabilities and tactical
applications of the new armour, which I trust you will find both
fascinating and encouraging.

We've managed to duplicate almost all the functionality of the alien
armour, from the nanocomposite plates to the servo-assisted movement. It
is incredibly light for its bulk, though still considerably heavier than
our Combat Armour. It is almost as protective as the alien model, and
bestows similar quickness of movement and more precise aiming.

However, there are some limitations that we just can't get around. The
fact is that the aliens have a good deal more experience with these
materials and can work them a lot more elegantly than we can. Our armour
is bulkier and heavier, more stiffly-constructed, and its electronics do
not perform as well. This may negatively impact firing speed and
reaction time. Our version of the polymer isn't quite as good as theirs,
it tends to crack more easily. Our servomotors in particular are large
and unwieldy compared to the compact alien designs. There's no way to
reduce their size any further than we already have.

We're really quite embarrassed about the boots in particular, but they
are honestly the best we could do. We simply don't have the precision
machinery needed to make servos like the aliens do. Regardless, we've
tried our best to make the boots safe and light, with a powerful
suspension system in the soles to make them springy enough for rapid
movement.

The new armour's tactical applications are extensive. It's light enough
to be worn by forward elements of our tac teams, yet protective enough
to resist heavy weapons fire. It will serve exceptionally well for close
assault troops that need both speed and armour to perform their best.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Alien Artifact -- Alien Body
  Armour](Equipment/Armour/Alien_Body_Armour "wikilink")