## Technical Specifications: Targeting Computer

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Under the continuing efforts of the Excalibur Program, we have scoured
the globe for the best components on Earth in order to fit our aircraft
with the equipment they need to survive against the alien threat. As
always, only the very best equipment has been selected for the defence
of our planet.

All our aircraft come standard with high-tech targeting systems, but
they still have an extremely difficult time tracking alien craft and
holding missile lock. Alien electronics are too far in advance of ours
for us to be able to realistically counter their defences. Our systems
lose lock, get suckered by flares or decoys, or simply get shot to hell
by the aliens' beam weapons.

These are all problems that we have no clear solution for at the moment.
However, what we can do is mount additional targeting equipment with
purpose-built filtering software that our standard systems can't load.
This package was specially built by my team using the latest, most
accurate data on alien craft signatures and detection methods. It knows
much more about the patterns and weaknesses of alien signals, helping to
penetrate the wall of Electronic Warfare activity around an alien craft.
This will significantly upgrade the accuracy of all weapons mounted on
the carrying interceptor.

The powerful hardware installation involved in this upgrade will take up
one complete modular equipment slot on one of our aircraft.

### Recommended Doctrine

This upgrade has several effective purposes. It can help to improve the
effectiveness of low-accuracy weapons systems on a single aircraft, it
can be used in a fire support role assisting barrages of long-range
missile fire, or it can be used en masse by whole flights of
interceptors to bring overwhelming fire to bear on our enemies at all
ranges.

Its only downside is that it takes up a whole modular slot that could be
used for defensive electronics or other equipment. This may leave our
interceptors weak in other areas.

### Addenda

With all the possibilities and different scenarios waiting in our
future, there is no golden rule that will help decide when to deploy the
Targeting Computer. It is ready for use at the Commander's discretion.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Skill

- [electronics](Skills/electronics "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")