## Blueprints -- Team Room

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 11 August 2008

By: Gen. E. Baxter, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Teamroom.png "Teamroom.png")It is painfully clear that soldiers
during wartime lead highly stressful lives. In order to maintain morale
they need a place to unwind and interact in a rank-free environment. We
have sought to provide this kind of R&R in the form of the Team Room
facility.

It is equipped with a variety of entertainments, from sports tables to
high-tech game consoles. It also features a modest wall-mounted cinema
display for communal movie screenings. There are vending machines with
alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and a separate sitting room for
our soldiers to achieve some amount of privacy from the closeness of
base living. To this end the sitting room can be locked from the inside
for up to 30 minutes per day by each team member. The lock may be
overridden from the Control Centre or by a present Command Centre or
medical officer in case of an emergency.

All our equipment requires maintenance, and I would argue that our
soldiers require the most maintenance of all. The Team Room is one of
the best ways to keep them mentally healthy and in fighting trim.

Unless it has access to an operational Power Plant, the Team Room will
be shut down to avoid non-vital power consumption.

### Recommended Doctrine

The Team Room is an important tool in maintaining good morale amongst
our soldiers and should be built in any base that houses a combat team.
It provides them with various vital means of stress relief, which will
ease the stressful effects of continued combat, life-threatening
situations, and the near-certain death of team members in the field.
High morale is essential for our battlefield performance and must be
maintained at all costs.

However, I must stress that the Team Room is not a replacement for base
leave. Our soldiers will still need to be allowed off-base from time to
time in order to maintain their connection with the outside world and
their sanity.

For the purposes of a base attack, the Team Room is an extremely
low-risk installation with little to no strategic value. If encountered
by extraterrestrial attackers, it will almost certainly be bypassed
altogether in favour of more sensitive installations.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")