# Entrada UFOpédia

## Proposta

**PARA:** Comandante da Base, PHALANX, Comando de Operações Atlântico

**DE:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Divisão de Engenharia, PHALANX, Comando
de Operações Atlântico

**DATA:** %02i %s %i

**ASSUNTO:** Proposta: Feixe de Partículas Portátil

Comandante, nós decidimos mais pesquisas sobre armas de feixe de
partículas são necessário, especialmente sobre sua fonte de energia
misteriosa, o carregador o qual nós fomos incapaz de examinar. Nada que
tentamos conseguiu abri-los. É por isso que eustou aqui propondo medidas
extremas.

Eu quero usar a câmara de radiação do laboratório para bombardear um ods
carregadores com pulsos eetromagnéticos, destruindo a maior parte dos
eletronicos interiores, e com alguma sorte desliga-los. Uma vez que
desativado com segurança, podemos usar força bruta para abrir.

Destruir o carregador para descubrir como funciona pode parecer
antiquado, mas não temos outra escolha no momento. Até mesmo atingido
fortemente por PEM (Pulso Eletro-Magnético), poderá nos responder muitas
perguntas sobre a tecnologia de feixe de partículas alienigena. E tambem
poderá nos dizer como abrir um carregador sem danifica-lo.

Uma vez que sabemos como funciona, poderemos reavaliar essas armas e
conseguir montar uma nós mesmos.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Resultado

**PARA:** Comandante da Base, PHALANX, Comando de Operações Atlântico

**DE:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Divisão de Engenharia, PHALANX, Comando
de Operações Atlântico

**DATA:** %02i %s %i

**ASSUNTO:** Re: Feixe de Partículas Portátil

Comandante, meu método. Nós conseguimos descobrir os segredos sobre o
armamento de feixe de partículas. Aqui está minhas conclusões:

A aparencia nos surgere uma séria escalação nesta guerra. Antes de
sermos atingidos com ela, nós não fazemos a mínima idéia de como os
alienigenas possuem uma tecnologia tão avançada, e nós não fazemos a
menor idéia de porque ela não foi utilizada antes. As motivações e
estratégia alienigena permanece um completo mistério para nós. Ainda
assim, eu não acho que estou sobreestimando quando digo que estas armas
mudarão tudo.

When I try to describe this, you have to understand that I'm not talking
about the actual weapons. As I've mentioned in my reports, the weapons
themselves are basically nothing more than a metal shell around a set of
magnets and electrostatic lenses, all used for focusing and constricting
the particle beam. The real magic happens in a space about the size of
my fist. I'm talking about what we have previously thought of as the
'magazine', until now. What it actually is is unbelievable.

Each individual magazine is actually a synchrotron particle accelerator
of mind-blowingly tiny proportions, wrapped around a battery pack so
small that we can't even begin to imagine how they built it. The
synchrotron speeds particles round and round in a very small circle --
less than the diameter of the magazine -- until they've achieved
sufficient velocity. The particles are then diverted via a magnetic
field into the focusing array, where they are magnetically constricted
-- 'pinched' -- into a coherent beam.

Commander, there is no chance in hell that we can build accelerators
this complex this small. Not in our lifetimes. Neither we at PHALANX nor
the rest of the world have the precision machinery or the knowledge
necessary to duplicate the alien technology. We've documented how the
weapons works, and they're simple enough to produce, but if we actually
want to use them we're going to have to scrounge magazines off the
aliens. Worse, these little accelerators are put under tremendous
amounts of strain in their lifetimes, and they'll start to malfunction
after being used only a few times. Our ammo supply will be spotty at
best, limited to whatever we can recover in the field.

If the aliens have widespread access to this sort of technology, and
they obviously do, I couldn't tell you why they haven't just waltzed in
and mashed humanity into paste. Their war machine is several orders of
magnitude greater than ours. Their technology is more advanced, they
have more numbers and better aircraft, and yet they're still coming at
us in fits and starts. It's baffling. However, any good soldier will
tell you that 'why' doesn't matter right now. They're the ones making
the mistake and it's up to us to take advantage of it.

We need to upgrade, upgun, and uptrain everything we have, Commander.
Everything. We have to be ready before they start getting really serious
about this war.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Particle Beam Pistol`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Pistol "wikilink")
` `[`Particle Beam Rifle`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Rifle "wikilink")
` `[`Particle Beam Cannon`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Cannon "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")