## 기술 명세서: 스패로호크 유도탄

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

기술 문서, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, 대서양 작전
사령부

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 개요

This is a "Sparrowhawk" guided anti-aircraft missile. It is designed to
be loaded into the "Sparrowhawk" AA Missile Rack.

The "Sparrowhawk" missile is an antique that never quite got out of the
prototype stage. It was first tested in 2019, using then-revolutionary
digital imaging technology to improve the old guidance technology of
'contrast seeking'. This technique uses an array of optical cameras
mounted in the transparent fibreglass nose of the missile. The onboard
computer looks for a spot in the image where the contrast changes the
fastest, and then attempts to keep that spot dead centre in front of it.
This system has been employed mostly in air-to-ground missiles due to
the greater effectiveness of other guidance systems against Earth-built
aircraft.

The Sparrowhawk program was cancelled only months before the design
would've been put into service. It was ready to be put into service
then, and it's ready now. We've revived the Sparrowhawk AA program and
the UN has agreed to put it into mass production.

The "Sparrowhawk" is mounted in 7-missile racks, which can then be
mounted to the appropriate weapons hardpoints on our aircraft. The
missile's range is far superior to any of the other weapons we have
available at this time; it's effective out to twelve kilometres from the
aircraft thanks to its unique guidance technology. It's also hardened
against EMP to prevent it from being disabled electronically.

The individual missiles weigh approximately 65 kilos. A fully-loaded
rack is approximately 600 kilos.

### Recommended Doctrine

The Sparrowhawk should be an essential part of our aerial defence plan.
Preferably all our interceptors would be carrying at least one full rack
at launch. The ability to soften up an enemy while we close in is
something not to be ignored lightly. Overall accuracy will be poor -- we
estimate approximately one hit in twelve -- but the range difference is
one of miles.

Compared to the TR-20 rocket pod, the Sparrowhawk's effective range is
greater by eight kilometres. Compared the SHIVA cannon, it's greater by
ten kilometres. While these deliver a lot more damage than the
Sparrowhawk at their respective ranges, the closer we have to get to
attack the enemy, the greater the danger to our pilots and interceptors.

It should theoretically be possible to simply overwhelm UFOs with
Sparrowhawk fire if we could field enough aircraft armed with them.
However, our Director of Finances has expressed her extreme displeasure
with this idea, and I have to admit she's got a point -- but I think
it's something we should keep in mind if we come up against a
particularly dangerous UFO that needs to be taken out at range and as
quickly as possible.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [blast](Damage/blast "wikilink")

### Skill

- [missiles](Skills/missiles "wikilink")