# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Monomolecular Blades

Commander, now that we've had a good look at the alien blade technology
from several sources -- the Bloodspider's 'fangs' and the Kerrblade --
we're starting to form a picture of how to recreate the unknown or
ill-understood materials used in their construction.

Some of this stuff is completely new to us. The plastics from which the
alien blades are forged are harder than damascus steel, sharper than a
razor, and yet shock-resistant and flexible enough to survive the
stresses of melee combat. Once forged they are nearly impossible to
break, nick or bend. Applying a hammer and chisel directly to the blade
just means you end up with two neatly-sliced halves of a chisel.

Obviously it would be of great interest to us if we could create our own
knives made from these materials, with edges tapering to the width of a
single molecule. My team and I believe it may now be possible.

If you give us the funding and lab time we need, we can design and
create a new monomolecular combat knife that will even the playing field
for our soldiers when forced into hand-to-hand combat. This knife will
be far more compact than the Kerrblade and much easier for humans to
wield, and it'll be small enough to be used one-handed.

Equipping our troops with such weapons could give them a major
advantage, as they'll be able to properly defend themselves in melee for
the first time whilst using other weapons or equipment -- such as
pistols, grenades, medikits, or other useful items of tactical or
life-saving importance.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Monomolecular Blades

Commander, I'm hereby reporting our success in the creation of alien
blade materials. We've loaded the production specs into our Workshop
machinery and have constructed a small forge for shaping our new
monomolecular knives.

The reproduction process has been very interesting on this one. After
we'd figured out how to 'cook' the alien plastics to the right
temperatures, we ended up with bars of incredibly hard material which we
then tried to shape into knives. On our first attempts we tried to
create a straight-edged blade with a powerful point, like most modern
combat knives, so that it could be used for both cutting and stabbing.
All of these models snapped in half during the cooling process. We had a
devil of a time figuring out why until we placed a small camera inside
the furnace.

It turns out that the curve of the Kerrblade isn't a design choice --
it's a function of the material itself. The plastic radically curves and
expands during heat-moulding in our furnace, and contracts again during
cooling, which ended up cracking all of our straight-edged blades. It
demands a particular curved shape to retain its durability as a blade.
We had to completely redesign the knife to account for this effect,
which brought it to its current shape.

In length, it's either a long knife or a short sword, depending on who
you ask. The design of the handle and crossguard are based on
Middle-Eastern and Asian swordmaking traditions mixed in with modern-day
science and know-how. The handle is made from semi-solid rubber, which
automatically moulds itself to the wielder's hand to maximise comfort
and gripping power. Both the triangular crossguard and pommel are
unbreakable carbon-nanotube-reinforced plastic, a material that even
Kerrblades have trouble with.

This knife goes a long way towards evening the odds for our soldiers
when they get caught in hand-to-hand. Though it's larger than our old
combat knife, doesn't thrust as well, and doesn't have the power of the
Kerrblade's sword-length swing, it strikes an ideal middle ground
between these two weapons. The monomolecular knife is almost the equal
of the Kerrblade in lethality but still small enough to be worn in our
standard holster or in a sheath hung from the belt. It amounts to a
significant upgrade of our melee combat capabilities, and I'm thoroughly
pleased with the result.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [Combat Knife](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Combat_Knife "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Artifact -- Kerrblade`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Kerrblade "wikilink")
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Bloodspider`](Aliens/Bloodspider "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Monomolecular Knife`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")