## Technical Specifications: Combat Armour

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created not only to find the right weapons to
combat the alien threat, but also to find armour and other items of
battlefield utility to help our soldiers complete their missions and
return to base alive. These items are designed to increase a soldier's
combat effectiveness or general survivability.

The use of armour on the battlefield never quite died out completely,
though it was rendered ineffective in most forms between the early 18th
century and the late 20th. It began to find its way back to common use
in World War 1 in the form of steel helmets. This practice continued
through WW2, and was later superceded by the invention of kevlar. Today,
however, kevlar is thoroughly obsolete in nearly all its forms; it's now
used only by civilians and police forces with budget problems. Even more
advanced types of 20th-century body armour have been rendered useless by
modern weapons. New materials were needed, materials to make armour
stronger and its wearers tougher than ever before.

Surprisingly, several ancient files we've unearthed seem to confirm that
PHALANX was responsible for some amazing technological breakthroughs in
the past, technologies that were later adopted across the world. Every
attempt at producing artificial spider silk had failed, but researchers
at the PHALANX Pacific Operations Command base finally managed it in
2017. Their technique is still in use today, centred around a device
called the 'organic loom'; a large feeding armature supporting hundreds
of individual silk glands and spinnerets, designed solely for the
mass-production of spider silk.

The first widespread use of military combat armour made from spider silk
came as a joint effort by NATO in 2023, after ballistic tests proved
that Chinese rounds tore right through their aging standard-issue kevlar
vests. The armour itself is a layercake of spider silk and treated ultra
high molecular weight polyethylene, giving it astonishing strength and
flexibility. The resulting fabric is about 18 times stronger than steel
and provides a performance increase over kevlar that is estimated
between 300 and 400%. Suits made primarily from polyethylene became
obsolete after artificial spider silk was released into the wider
market, and the new composite armour soon replaced it in military use
throughout the world. The armour has been upgraded to move with the
times, being so effective that it is still in common use today. It
features pockets on the front and back that can take ceramic or metal
inserts to further protect vital areas.

The Combat Armour's only disadvantage is its relatively high weight
compared to older suits, but this is mainly due to the number of layers
required to properly protect against modern weapons. The weight is
evenly distributed, making it quite comfortable to wear and much less
bulky than experimental nanocomposite armours. This armour will save
lives while preserving the soldier's all-important mobility.

### Recommended Doctrine

Where possible, PHALANX troops should always wear armour whenever they
are sent into a combat situation. The Combat Armour should be considered
the basic protection no soldier can afford to go without. For some
soldiers, the Combat Armour will remain a viable choice compared to
heavier, more advanced armours due to the freedom of movement it
provides. Snipers and anyone else not expected to be at the front line
will be able to make good use of the extra mobility.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Armour](Category:Armour "wikilink")