## Technical Specifications: SHIVA 20mm API Rounds

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a pallet of 20mm API (Armour-Piercing Incendiary) ammunition for
the SHIVA Rotary Cannon. It can contain up to 10,000 rounds.

This high-powered anti-aircraft munition consists of a hard
titanium-steel shell, tipped with depleted uranium, and filled with a
core of explosive incendiary compound. Once the shell penetrates the
outer skin of an aircraft, the core detonates, blowing the shell apart
like a fragmentation grenade and spreading incendiary compound over the
target area. Critical systems may be damaged before the incendiary
compound can be quenched or compartmentalised.

The advantage of the API round over the HEI (High-Explosive Incendiary)
is its improved penetration, giving each round a better chance of
causing some damage if a hit is scored. Penetrating API hits do not
cause nearly as much damage as penetrating HEI hits, however.

Each SHIVA cannon is loaded standard with a full pallet of 10,000
rounds, unless there are not enough rounds available in base storage.

### Recommended Doctrine

It's a tough choice between API and HEI ammo in most situations. If
we're expecting to engaging thickly-armoured enemies or have only
limited aircraft available to intercept, API is the round of choice. If
we're engaging heavily-armed, highly dangerous craft, then massed HEI
fire may be one of the quickest ways to take it down.

We can switch out a gun's ammunition in a matter of minutes, but we
can't load both types into the same gun. The variable pressure of firing
different ammunition can cause misfires and may result in extreme damage
to the gun and the aircraft. Both UN safety procedures and the
manufacturer's manual absolutely forbid it, and I can't help but agree.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [unguided ordnance](Skills/unguided "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")