# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Rifle

Commander, my department is ready to begin studying the recovered alien
plasma rifle. This is a highly dangerous and versatile weapon, vastly
outstripping the plasma pistol in range and power; something we should
try to put into the hands of our own soldiers ASAP. Please approve lab
time and funding as soon as our schedule permits.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Rifle

Commander, here's my report on our alien plasma rifle research.

At its most basic level, the plasma rifle is little more than an
upscaled version of the plasma pistol. However, as any firearms fanatic
will tell you, pistols are pistols and rifles are rifles. Handguns are
small, personal defence weapons. Rifles are weapons of war. The
disparity in power is remarkable.

Rifle plasma is over 20% hotter than pistol plasma and capable of
burning through even heavy armour. The plastic globes containing the
rifle's plasma shots are much thicker than the pistol's, giving them a
greater range before disintegrating. This is a short maximum range for a
general-purpose assault rifle, but ideal for urban infantry engagements.
The bolts do not suffer from projectile drop and they're far too massive
to be affected by wind conditions. This makes it an accurate weapon, but
its unusual design makes it more difficult for our soldiers to aim than
the standard-issue assault rifles they are used to.

The scariest new feature of this weapon is the fact that it is capable
of automatic fire. Its rate of fire on full-auto may not be very high
and the recoil is difficult to handle, but it more than makes up for
these failings with sheer power. Two or three solid plasma rifle hits
are usually all it takes to burn through light or medium-grade armour.
An unarmoured soldier has no hope at all.

We've figured out the controls on the rifle and written up a manual for
field use. Our troops should be able to make good use of it.

There can be no doubt that this weapon was designed and manufactured for
war, and not in any defensive capacity. The aliens clearly know armed
conflict very well. The rifle's power and lethality do not imply that
they invaded us because of some mistake or misunderstanding. They came
to Earth with a plan, Commander, and that really scares me.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")
- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Assault Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Assault_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Plasma Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Plasma_Pistol "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high damage.

2\) Quick-firing.

*Con:*

1\) Limited range.

2\) Long reload time.

3\) High recoil.

4\) Expensive.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma rifle`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Plasma Rifle`
` Enables production -- Plasma Rifle Charger`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")