# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Anti-Alien Gas

Commander,

Ever since the start of the invasion, we have been left scratching our
heads about the aliens' biology. We knew almost nothing about them,
their biology, their genetics or their potential vulnerabilities. This
left us helpless in the fields of biological and chemical warfare.

Our study of the various live and dead alien specimens we've recovered
has been enlightening. Thanks to the discoveries we've made over the
past few months, my team and I have come to believe that we're ready to
start a bio/chemical warfare program against the alien threat. We have
tissue samples, autopsy data, live specimens for testing; all the raw
materials we require to investigate methods of properly incapacitating
battlefield specimens without being forced to send PHALANX troops into
melee combat.

This will be a challenge given the constant protection and filtration
offered by the alien breathing apparatus, which prevents any harmful
materials entering the lungs, but if you authorise sufficient lab time
and funding we can almost certainly develop an aerosol compound that
will disable exposed aliens by chemical or biological means.

This will be a project of greatest importance and priority, Commander.
The sooner you lend it your authorisation, the better.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Anti-Alien Gas

Commander,

We've achieved results in our effort to create anti-alien chemicals that
can be effectively used on the battlefield. One agent in particular has
been classified as fully combat-capable and is ready to be deployed at
your say-so.

The agent in question is a cocktail of bleach, mustard gas, titanium
tetrachloride and several other nasty compounds, combining to form a
substance we like to call "CHOKE". It is a highly powerful blistering
agent that reacts with organic skin in seconds rather than hours. It
reacts violently with air to provide several minutes of gas coverage
over a small, concentrated area.

The effects on organic tissue are harsh. Even minor contact with the
skin or mucous membranes will cause severe irritation, resulting in
restricted breathing and excruciating pain. Contact with the eyes can
cause prolonged, even permanent blindness if left untreated. The agony
caused by CHOKE is so acute and disabling that it will knock the fight
out of almost anything with which it comes into contact. Our organic
alien captives have all demonstrated very satisfying responses; most
targets go into shock and exhibit little to no motor control until dosed
up with painkillers and anti-CHOKE medication. Their breathing apparatus
offers no defence whatsoever against an agent which doesn't need to
enter the lungs.

CHOKE is equally effective against humans. Volunteer testing has left
battle-hardened soldiers hunched on the floor in a foetal position,
frozen in place and barely able to breathe. Two subjects had to be
rushed to hospital due to blistering of the lungs and fluid buildup, but
I'm happy to report both will survive. It is however recommended that
our troops be kept away from any deployed CHOKE at all times. If one of
our troops does manage to come into contact with it, we've loaded our
medikits with the appropriate drugs to treat and revive.

The only defence against CHOKE is full body coverage. Any exposed skin
or breathing passage is a vulnerability, and so far the aliens have
deployed no armour that would protect their troops against this kind of
attack. As far as PHALANX agents are concerned, a full head-enclosing
gas mask should protect them adequately, since our standard uniforms and
armours provide airtight coverage of the soldier's body.

We've created a delivery system in the form of a standard throwable
canister. Our troops should experience no problems using this item in
the field.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

### Damage Type

- [stun](Damage/stun_gas "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")

## Links

- [Stun Mine](Equipment/Misc/Stun_Mine "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Live Alien`](Research/Live_Alien "wikilink")
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Taman`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")
` 1 live organic alien in containment`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Gas Grenade`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")