# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Advanced Interceptor Design

Commander, as you will be well aware, our enemies have been fielding
increasingly heavier craft and weaponry in our skies, perhaps in a
response to our leveling the playing field with the new Dragon
interceptors. Once again, we're feeling the pressure. My team and I have
believe it is time for the next evolution in our air combat arsenal.

As our understanding of the UFO workings and alien doctrine grows, we
are better able to incorporate that understanding into our designs. I've
already got a rough draft of what I think will constitute a high-power
air superiority fighter, but I need time and funding to come up with
something definitive.

I suggest you give some priority to this project, commander. Our pilots
are risking their lives up there every day, and each day the risk grows
higher.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Advanced Interceptor Design

Commander, excuse me if I sound a little incoherent, but I've been up
all night finishing the final blueprints. It is with great pleasure that
I present you the Starchaser Space Superiority Fighter. Yes, you read
that right, space superiority. One of the most striking improvements
over the Dragon - though it's certainly not the only one! - is the
ability of sustained orbital flight and combat. We now have the ability
of intercepting the enemy outside our own atmosphere, and while this
seems a minor boon so long as we don't know where the enemy is coming
from, I'm certain that we're going to need this capability sooner or
later.

Until that time comes, let's focus on more down-to-Earth matters. The
Starchaser is equipped with an alien-tech propulsion system that, along
with its sleek, aerodynamic design, bestows it with both speed and
manoeuvrability. The hull itself is made out of dense layers of alien
materials, providing an unprecedented level of durability. Finally,
despite the fact that the compact design leaves us with only limited
options for modular weapon and support systems, we've managed to improve
firepower over the Dragon design.

The Starchaser is truly the next generation in aerial combat, commander.
It matches or outperforms any other fighter design we have, so I
recommend we begin phasing it in immediately. Be advised, however, that
the Starchaser is rather costly to produce, in terms of credits, raw
materials and time alike.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Propulsion`](Research/Alien_Propulsion "wikilink")
` `[`Antimatter`](Research/Antimatter "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[300px](image:Craft_starchaser.jpg‎ "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")