## 기술 사양서:아레스 무인전투차량

**보안 등급 : BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### 개요

Although we are unable to field much in the way of armour or air support
for our infantry, one of the more interesting weapons available to us is
the UGV (Unmanned Ground Vehicle). This is a class of remote-controlled
vehicles that can come in many sizes and shapes, designed for use in all
environments including the tight urban scenarios that PHALANX will often
be faced with. Depending on their function they can be as large as a
miniature tank or as small as a man's fist.

The Ares UGV is a fairly new design; the first functional units were
deployed to the French army in 2074 as part of a 15-year rotary upgrade
plan for the whole GEU. After its impressive performance in trials and
peacekeeping operations, the Ares was adopted by Germany, Italy, Spain
and Britain in 2075 and 2076 as an infantry support vehicle. Over the
years it came to be used all over the world as a standard attachment to
infantry platoons, practically revolutionising infantry tactics and
equipment by itself.

Despite its record it never saw combat until the alien attack on Mumbai,
where several Ares units of the Indian army were destroyed defending a
mosque containing hundreds of unarmed civilians from an overwhelming
alien force. However, they managed to hold off the aliens just long
enough for a Commonwealth relief force to arrive and evacuate the
civilians. Although the Ares units were all destroyed, they inflicted
enough damage to cause the aliens to retreat rather than engage the
relief force.

The Ares is a formidable thing on any battlefield. Its heavy weapons and
armour can turn the tide if a fight appears to be going badly, able to
go toe-to-toe with the terrible alien weaponry and remain functional.
Unlike larger tanks, the Ares can keep up with infantry crossing rough
terrain and squeeze through narrow passages. It can provide support in
the tightest situations and deliver its firepower in many different ways
with an assortment of weapon modules that can be pressed into multiple
combat roles.

### 전술적 운용방법

We recommend deploying an Ares in support of any tactical team to
provide armour and heavy weapons support. It is also valuable for its
resistance to fear and panic. Because the Ares operator is safely
removed from the battlefield, controlling his vehicle from a VR unit at
the UGV's home base, he doesn't suffer battle stress in the same way our
infantry troops do. If an operator ever appears in danger of becoming
irrational, he can be taken out of the control unit and replaced with a
fresh stand-by operator in seconds.

You can always count on the Ares to be a beacon of calm, stability and
immense firepower on the battlefield.

### 추가설명

Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 20 March 2084:

Commander, I wanted to add this to the file to warn you. Cdr. Navarre's
enthusiastic assessment of this vehicle is mostly accurate, but I used
to serve with prototype Ares UGVs on black ops in the Middle East and I
know they can be a little more quirky than they seem.

I want to stress that the Ares is fine to deploy in almost all terrain
-- it only goes funny in extremely sandy or dusty environments. Large
amounts of airborne particles can overload the vehicle's air filters and
cause component malfunctions in things like the drivetrain,
communications hub, even the turret. Nothing dangerous, but enough to
cause an Ares to seize up or shut down on you without warning.

I know for a fact that this issue was not fixed in the production model
despite my recommendations, so if I were you I wouldn't bring it into
those sorts of climates.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 연관글

- [무인전투차량](무인전투차량 "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:UGVs](Category:UGVs "wikilink")