## Technical Specifications: C90 Canister

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a 200mm canister of high-pressure flammable gas, locked and
secured via three different systems to prevent accidents. Compound 90 is
a new flamethrower fuel that, when injected into the air, creates a slow
thermobaric reaction -- a fuel-air ignition rather than a fuel-air
explosion -- that can roast living tissue in seconds. Its range is
limited, as the C90 must be quickly ignited before it disperses, but it
inflicts horrific damage on organic targets that few weapons can hope to
match. The heat generated by C90 exceeds 1700 degrees celsius, enough to
melt titanium, but due to its gaseous nature it leaves no burning
residue (like napalm) and disperses heat much more quickly. This makes
it significantly safer for urban use than napalm-derivative substances.

The canister is meant to be loaded into a CRC-FL Flamethrower.

### Recommended Doctrine

All soldiers equipped with flamethrowers should carry at least one
reload whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send
our troops into combat without spare canisters.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [fire](Damage/fire "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")