## Technical Specifications: MP-699 Machine Pistol

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

With the return of armour to the battlefield, starting with steel
helmets in World War 1 and fragmentation vests in Vietnam, pistols have
had a harder and harder time keeping up. Due to their far lower muzzle
velocity compared to longer-barreled and/or fully automatic weapons,
they've had increasing trouble penetrating the new, ever-higher
standards of human armour -- much less advanced alien composites. The
very concept of the pistol in military use came under fire at one point
in the 21st century, and was saved only by the advent of
super-high-velocity powder.

The major drawback of super-high-velocity powder is that it cannot be
used in fully-automatic weapons, since no firearms action on this Earth
can survive that much violence for long without breaking. The British
APMP pistol ignores these concerns by using more ordinary smokeless
powder and a longer, almost SMG-length barrel to achieve higher
velocities and greater kinetic power. It is a true machine pistol, fully
automatic and capable of firing 600 rounds per minute from its
surprisingly slim-lined 30-round detachable box magazine. It has three
firing modes: semi-automatic, 3-round burst, and full-automatic.

Whenever we need an automatic weapon no larger than our own P-12, this
is the weapon that fills the gap.

For PHALANX use, we have given this machine pistol the classification
MP-699.

### Recommended Doctrine

The MP-699 is primarily a backup weapon. It is a significant step up
from the combat knife as a weapon of last resort, and it lets a soldier
respond to new close-range threats if the primary weapon is rendered
ineffective at such ranges or has run out of ammo. It is a good
alternative for soldiers who have trouble hitting anything with the
P-12, but the MP-699 is low-powered in comparison with the P-12.
Furthermore, its magazines are large enough to preclude hanging them
from a soldier's belt and far fewer of them can be carried conveniently.

A single MP-699 should rarely be considered as a primary weapon, as it
is outclassed in this role by nearly every other weapon in our arsenal.
Its advantages are the advantages of a sidearm -- small size and weight.
Still, it may find a use as a primary weapon with field medics and
technicians who do not have room for larger weapons.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [4.2mm MP Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/4.2mm_MP_Magazine "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")