# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Pistol

Commander, we've recovered a dangerous new alien pistol that seems to
fire high-energy particle beams -- more deadly than lasers, more
accurate than plasma weapons, and an extremely nasty new threat to our
troops on the battlefield. Preliminary tests against our armour have
produced distressing results. We need to perform more research on these
weapons immediately.

Please authorise this program at your earliest convenience.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Pistol

Commander, I've got the specs of the new alien pistol for you, and
they're not good.

We've always suspected that a real alien army would field more than just
plasma weapons and Kerrblades. Now they've gone and proved us right.
This particle beam weaponry is extremely advanced, a quantum leap above
the plasma weapons, miniaturised far beyond our ability to duplicate.

Particle-beam weaponry is designed to hit a target object with a stream
of accelerated particles moving at near-light velocities, therefore
carrying tremendous kinetic energy. Until now we've only seen the aliens
use this technology in large UFO weapons. Now, however, they're using it
on the ground in the worst way.

The pistol itself is quite simple in build, just a shell covering a set
of magnets and electrostatic lenses for focusing and constricting the
particle beam. This is all stuff we can duplicate easily with enough
money and effort. However, we've yet to figure out the weapon's ammo
supply. The energy readings we've taken from the magazines are extreme,
and despite our efforts, we haven't managed to disable or disarm one in
order to safely open it up. Even shooting it dry doesn't completely
deactivate one of these magazines. More research will be required before
we can try and understand them, much less reproduce them.

Certainly this pistol is the nastiest handgun I've ever seen in my
career, with impressive armour-piercing capabilities and extreme damage
potential. The high-speed particle beam can kill a lightly-armoured
human in one shot at ranges of up to 40 metres. Just one shot. With
regards to lethality at range, it outperforms even our laser pistol. The
only good news is that the PB pistol is significantly less accurate than
our lasers and produce too much of a kick to make repeated accurate
shots.

In fact, firing the pistol may be difficult for troops with less than
the required physical strength. The particles leaving the barrel move at
a fraction of the speed of light, so they generate an unholy amount of
recoil against the shooter. It would be an extreme challenge for weaker
troops to keep the weapon on-target. If these pistols are deployed, we
recommend they only be issued to the stronger troops on our squad.

I'll keep you posted on our progress with the magazines, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [particle beam](Damage/particle_beam "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [9mm Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/9mm_Pistol "wikilink")
- [Laser Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Laser_Pistol "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High damage.

2\) Long range.

3\) Quick-firing.

4\) High accuracy.

*Con:*

1\) Long reload time.

2\) High recoil.

3\) Damage lowered by smoke/gas/fire.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Particle beam pistol`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Particle Beam Pistol`
` `[`Man-Portable Particle Beams`](Research/Man-Portable_Particle_Beams "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")