## Technical Specifications: Polymer Aircraft Armour

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Under the continuing efforts of the Excalibur Program, we have scoured
the globe for the best components on Earth in order to fit our aircraft
with the equipment they need to survive against the alien threat. As
always, only the very best equipment has been selected for the defence
of our planet.

One of the fundamental truths in aircraft design is that it's easier to
dish out damage than it is to take it and keep coming. Heavy objects
don't really belong in the sky; it takes a constant input of power to
keep things like aircraft, birds and balloons from coming back down, and
if the source of this power is damaged in mid-flight, a crash is
unavoidable. PHALANX uses exclusively multi-engine aircraft, but even
though it's possible for our interceptors to land on only one engine,
the loss of an engine during combat will immediately render the aircraft
combat-ineffective. With such a drastic loss of speed and manoeuvring
power, continuing the engagement would be suicide.

Adding extra armour to our aircraft is a weighty but effective solution
to keeping them in the sky, protecting critical systems from damage and
allowing the aircraft to stay in the fight longer than would otherwise
be possible. It will reduce the severity of hits to the fuel tank and
other vital systems that might otherwise result in the craft's instant
destruction.

The expensive polymer used in our standard add-on armour is one of the
toughest materials on the planet. It deforms wildly under heat and
pressure, such as when impacted by kinetic or explosive energy,
cushioning the blow across the entire armour surface. Once the energy
has dissipated, the deformed plate amazingly resumes all or most of its
previous shape, depending on the amount of damage received. We even have
facilities in our Workshops to repair permanently-deformed polymer
plates once the aircraft returns to base.

On the downside, the added weight will slow the aircraft down and
significantly decrease its effective range. This is less of an issue for
quick short-range interceptions, but can cause problems if UFOs are
spotted in areas far distant from any of our bases.

Installing this armour add-on will completely take up the modular armour
slot on one of our aircraft.

### Recommended Doctrine

It is recommended to restrict this armour add-on to craft which are
meant to make quick, short-range interceptions not far from their base.
The installation of add-on armour on our long-range interceptors is left
to the Commander's discretion, but limiting their effective range in
this manner can be dangerous, as it will be several hours' work to strip
off the armour once it's put on. During this time the interceptor will
be 'in the shop' and unable to launch. Any rearming or refuelling of the
aircraft will have to wait until the installation/removal is complete.
Our techs can't work on this material with dangerous munitions or fuel
on-site.

Scrambling an aircraft during a half-finished armour job is possible but
not recommended. The craft will be highly unbalanced and in danger of
crashing because of unpredictable handling and behaviour. It certainly
won't be able to fight, as its targeting electronics will have been shut
down for the duration of the maintenance cycle, and they cannot be
booted up in time to be effective in a scramble situation.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")