# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol

Commander, we've recovered the first alien plasma weapon of the war. I
don't need to tell you how important this is. The alien armaments are
highly-advanced, powerful and extremely lethal; we must figure out how
they work in order to arm and armour ourselves against them.

The alien plasma weapons represent a curious application of the
plasma-thrower concept, which was previously believed to be unfeasible
as a battlefield weapon. I would very much like to figure out how it
works. My team and I are confident that -- with enough time and proper
safety procedures -- we can hammer out the plasma pistol's function and
controls and write a small operational manual; our soldiers could
actually use the aliens' weapons against them!

Of course, this program will need your approval for lab time and
funding.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Pistol

When the aliens need a sidearm, they don't screw around.

This plasma pistol is a nasty piece of work, Commander. Its operation is
extremely complex and inventive, requiring a great deal of technical
skill to create. The power pack alone is hundreds of years ahead of our
technology. It stores enough power to heat several charges of hydrogen
to a plasmatic state inside the miniature fusion chamber, which are
expelled as plasma using the ionised particles' own velocity.

Unlike human firearms, the projectiles themselves are not stored in a
magazine or reservoir. They are generated inside the pistol from
hydrogen contained in the magazine, powered by the magazine's
power-pack. Once the plasma is heated, a thin film of liquid plastic is
created between the two 'spinnerets' located vertically opposite each
other in front of the grip. The plasma particles are then rapidly fired
into the film so that the plastic deforms into an orb or 'bolt'. The
plastic contains and protects the plasma, keeping it from dispersing
until it reaches the target. By the time a bolt reaches the target, the
inside of the plastic will be so eaten away that it will burst upon
impact like a soap bubble, splashing its payload across the target. The
maximum range of a pistol bolt -- the point it can reach before the
plasma eats into open air and disperses -- is not very far, but its
appropriate for a secondary weapon.

A bolt fired from the plasma pistol is so hot that even a near-miss can
be lethal. The effects on a victim are truly horrific; I will try to
list them all here.

Any unarmoured human sprayed with this plasma will suffer extreme pain
and injuries all across the splash zone. Adipose (fatty) tissue will
melt like water. Blood and other bodily fluids boil in place. The plasma
will actually eat its way into a human body, causing bone-deep charring
in a large region around the splash zone. A large chunk of the body will
be literally burnt to a crisp.

Any kind of tough fabric will provide some protection against a plasma
hit. High-tech armour in particular will disperse the heat as best it
can, and will resist the burning plasma for a time. Hopefully this will
be enough time to allow air-cooling to take place, bringing the plasma
down to non-lethal temperatures.

I won't pretend to know how the aliens managed to squeeze all this stuff
into a pistol, but it does look as though they've made the same
tradeoffs between power and size that we have done with our handguns.
It's almost certain that larger, more powerful versions of these weapons
exist and will appear against us in this war. However, my team and I
have figured out the control scheme of the pistols, and we've written an
appropriate field manual for human use. Our soldiers will now be able to
employ the plasma pistol in a combat scenario as they would any other
weapon.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) High damage.

2\) Quick-firing.

*Con:*

1\) Limited range. (Approx. same range as [7.62mm
Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/7.62mm_Pistol "wikilink"))

2\) Low accuracy.

3\) Long reload time.

4\) High recoil.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma Pistol`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Plasma Pistol`
` Enables production -- Plasma Pistol Charger`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")