# Equiping aircraft

We need to react quickly to counter the alien menace and pursuing them
with aircraft is the simplest way to defend a large zone in a short
time.

Once hangars are set in your base, clicking on one of them will bring
you to the aircraft screen. All the aircrafts in the base are listed on
the top left window. The top right one shows the selected aircraft.

## Equipment

The aircrafts selected for the PHALANX project can handle more or less
weapons, equipments and armor extensions.

The bottom left window shows the equipment available in storage stored
by category.

When weapons are listed the aircraft view will show the available
emplacements with the currently equiped weapon if any. Clicking on an
emplacement will show its state in the bottom right window. Replace the
weapon by assigning a new one.

It will take some time to remove the mounted weapon and to attach the
new one. If the weapon you selected has different kind of ammunitions
check which one will be loaded and change them in the ammunition
category.

As for weapons the aircraft can board some extensions. Select them and
order mounting them in dedicated slots the same way as weapons.

Finally the regular armor can be reinforced with a single extension.

The effectiveness and lifetime of your interceptors will greatly depend
on the equipment set. Choose them wisely.

## Pilot

The aircraft must be operated by confirmed pilots. Don't forget to hire
some and assign them to an aircraft.

The box next to the pilot name shows its assignment. If the box is grey
the pilot is already affected to an other aircraft, if empty it can be
assigned to the selected one.

## Soldiers

See also [Manual/Singleplayer/Equip
Soldiers](Manual/Singleplayer/Equip_Soldiers "wikilink").

Probably the most important sub-menu here is "Equip Aircraft". A click
brings up a screen which allows you to choose which soldiers to assign
to your selected aircraft. Obviously this is quite important when it
comes to your dropship. A standard dropship offers place for 8 soldiers
and there are only very few reasons not to use all of them. In order to
choose the best soldiers for an upcoming mission you are provided with
an picture of your selected character and his / her statistics. A simple
click on the "X" or\$\surd\$ assigns or discards the selected soldier
from the current ship (which can be changed using the screen in the
lower right). By the way: if you are unhappy with the names of your
fighters you may change them using the "edit" button in the upper right,
just next to current soldiers name.

Also please notice that while you can assign one soldier to an
interceptor ship, this wont do any good. Unless of course you decide to
land on a mission-site with just this one soldier. Once you made your
decision of whom to take to battlefield, confirm your selection using
the button in the very bottom right corner (you can re-do your selection
as often as you want as long as the ship in question hasn't left the
base) which brings up the inventory screen.

Here you can equip your soldiers for their upcoming missions. The
different sections of this screen should be quite self-explanatory,
nevertheless we will comment some of its basic features. In the upper
left you see all soldiers assigned to the current aircraft. On the
opposite, left, side of the screen you see the soldier with his/her
inventory. The amount of space an item requires is represented by the
number of "squares" covered. The biggest part of the screen is used by
your base's item stock. In order to make it easier to use the large
amount of items, you can choose one of 4 categories
(primary/secondary/misc/armour) to be displayed here. You can drag and
drop items from the base's stock to the inventory of your soldiers and
vice versa. Weapons shown with a red background lack the required ammo
and aren't usable. You may equip them anyway but unless you get the
corresponding ammunition from somewhere else they won't be of any use.
In order to assist you in your task to equip every soldier with a weapon
that he can handle effectively, the lower left shows the soldiers
statistics (for details on stats please refer to the appendix or
ufopedia). Please keep in mind that some weapons utilise two weapon
proficiencies depending on the chosen firemode. Alternatively to the
soldiers stats window you can change this to an object details view
which presents the basic stats (one/two handed, round per clip,
firemodes, damage, etc.) of an item. For details on damage and firemodes
of a weapon you need to view the details of the corresponding clip /
ammunition as some weapons can be equipped with different types of ammo.
A simple click on the arrow symbol in the very bottom right corner
confirms your selections and gets you back to the aircraft screen.

[Category:Manual](Category:Manual "wikilink")
[Category:Base](Category:Base "wikilink")