# Buying/selling and producing equipments

We cannot fight on the long run without supplies. Our soldiers and
aircraft requires some equipments to go to the battle and there are
three ways to provide them.

You can buy them, produce them or grab them from the aliens.

## Buying and selling

![](Buy_sell-2.4.jpg "Buy_sell-2.4.jpg") Once your base has a running
storage the buy/sell option is available. On the left part is the list
of all items. Use the up arrow to buy an item, down to sell it. Left to
the arrows is the number of item your base is storing (and your soldiers
equiped with), right to them is the number available from your
suppliers.

Buying items is instant and you can sell an item the same price as you
bought it.

Be warned that supplies are short for the cutting edge equipments. And
because PHALANX will shortly discover new technologies you will have to
produce them yourself before someone else is able to provide you some.

## Producing

![](Production-2.4.jpg "Production-2.4.jpg") In case the suppliers are
short on some items or some are not even produced, the engineers are
able to work on any king of thing in the workshop. But be warned that a
team of the best engineers of the world in a versatile workshop cannot
compete with a dedicated mass production factory. Building items will
take some time but this cannot be avoided if we want to be able to
quickly adapt to new technologies.

Like for getting from supplyer, the production screen shows the list of
items. On top is the production list, in order of priority. Use the
arrows to order more or less items, clic on start production to put an
item in the queue. On the left are shown the details of the item,
production time and cost and size in storage.

The length of the production queue connot exceed the production limit
and all engineers will work on the top priority item.

## Grabbing from the alien

The aliens don't care about our inferior technologies but it would be
stupid not to take some of their equipments. Some of them are not
designed for the human morphology and will never be useable directly but
other items should be useable once we have understood all the features
and risks of their technologies.