# Equiping soldiers

![](Equip_soldiers-2.4.jpg "Equip_soldiers-2.4.jpg") Assigning soldiers
to an aircraft is not sufficient to send them to the battle. None of
them would like to fight the aliens with their bare knuckles. Give them
a well though range of weapons and support tools for them to be the most
effective on the battlefield. Once you have assigned soldiers to an
aircraft, click on Equip soldiers next to the aircraft view to enter the
team equipment screen.

Note: Even if you own a base without hangars/ships, you'll be prompted
to equip the present soldiers if the base is attacked.

## Assigning equipment

Select a soldier on the top left window. You will see its current
equipment on the top right section, informations about his/her
capacities or data about the selected equipment on the bottom left part
and the storage on the bottom right part.

Drag the equipment to an empty space to equip your soldier. Keep in mind
it is always faster to get something from the belt and holster than from
the backpack.

Small items can be rotated by pushing them to the border of a slot while
dragging them.

To equip the soldier with an armor just drag one on the his/her torso.
You can also define the camo color with the box at the bottom of the
soldier's frame. Althought we haven't seen any difference in efficiency
against the aliens.

## Reload

Before going to mission, every soldier will try to replace used
equipment by new ones. Make sure you always have some spare ammunitions
and grenades. If an ammunition is not available, the soldier will pick
an other one fitting its weapon, but if there is any, the weapon will go
empty.

To change the type of ammunition loaded in the weapon, simply drag the
new kind on it.

[Category:Manual](Category:Manual "wikilink")
[Category:Base](Category:Base "wikilink")