# The Geoscape

![](Geoscape-2.4.jpg "Geoscape-2.4.jpg") The Geoscape is the main
operation screen. It shows the Earth with all installations and all
detected alien activities. On the left is the time and view control
panel and the action panel.

Use the loop and flipping arrow on the rigth or hold the right mouse
button to flip the view and click on the magnifiers on use the mouse
wheel to zoom in and out.

Once the game start you are requested to choose the location of your
first base. Left clic where you want to build it and the game start.

## The Earth

The map of the Earth is your strategical operation map. Click on an item
select it and show information on the right panel.

### Strategical objects

#### Bases

The blue circle with an H represent your bases. Clicking on it will
bring you to the base management screen.

You will be able to build more of them around the world to extend your
activities against the alien invasion, as well as other external
buildings.

#### Your dropships

These are the ones that get your squad to the action. Clicking on it
once brings up some general data about it (like fuel, speed, status and
amount assigned soldiers) to the status screen.

A second click while it's selected opens a submenu where you may
give/change orders, e.g. sending it back home.

#### Your interceptors

Those fast ships job is to take enemy UFOs down. If it catches up with
one the dogfight is going to be calculated based on both ships equipment
and the result shown on screen. Just like one paragraph before a single
click selects the interceptor (a further click to a certain spot on the
map will order it to move it there) printing some general information in
the status window. A second click while it is selected brings up a
window where you might give more advanced orders to your ship.

#### Ground missions

Be it alien activity or a crashed or landed UFO, this is where the
action waits. Selecting a mission will give you a short description on
the status screen while a second one makes you select a ship to bring in
the troops you want.

### Layouts

#### The radar layout

The radar layout is automatically activated once an UFO is spotted or
you can toggle it by clicking on the button under the rotation commands.
The radar layout covers the Earth with a white shadow and shows 2
circles around your base.

The first circle is the detection zone. This area without shadow is
where your sensors are fully active and can spot UFO's. The second
circle is your tracking zone. A spotted UFO will remain visible once it
has left the detection zone as long as it stays in the tracking zone.

Every area outside these circles are not covered by sensors. Thus you
will always be alerted worldwide for ground activities.

#### The nation layout

This layout is triggered by the dedicated button under the rotation
commands. It will show the nations and borders in different colors. It
will be usefull to know in which country you are operating or not to
keep high confidence and funding to the PHALANX project by every nation.

### Notifications

Short notifications are shown on the top of the screen. To extend the
view and look for older messages leave your cursor on the notification
bar. You will be notified this way for every operation message, from
alien activity to research and production progress and other logistic
operations.

Alien activities are also summarized on the top right corner of the
screen. You can center the map on the UFO or ground activity by clicking
on the information box.

## Control panel

On the right stands the control panel. It shows information about time,
credit and the selected object as well as general operation commands.

### Time control

On top of the right panel stays the time which gives you the current
date so you know when its close to pay day. Please keep in mind that for
mankind time is kind of running up. While you, in principle, have
unlimited time at your hand, in fact aliens get stronger and better
equipped as the game proceeds and you will have to catch up with them in
order to beat them and save your beloved homeworld.

Just below are your credits and the time control buttons.

The rightmost button is the pause button. When clicked time hungs. The
other buttons sets the time speed from the slowest to the fastest.

Important events will automatically stop the time, like alien activity.

### Miscelaneous buttons

At the bottom of the right panel lays a menu for various operations.

#### Message settings

Message settings will open a popup to manage notifications. For each
notification type you may enable or disable notification, stopping time
and playing a sound.

#### Mailclient

The mailclient will bring you to your mail log. Internal notifications
are logged in your client. Your sciencists and the United Nations will
send you messages this way. You will be notified of incoming mails by a
notification.

### Statistics

The statistic screen let you view general information about your
activity and fundings. You can find out about the attitude of all the UN
countries paying you. Please be aware that if you fail to protect
particular countries from alien invasions (maybe because your
infrastructure are not well established in that region they will cut
your resources (financial and employees)

### Ufopedia

Ufopedia is a comprehensive collection of useful information about
items, technologies, damage types and others. As your research proceeds
Ufopedia grows as well, so make sure you check the latest news on your
enemy's every now and then.

### Create installation

Finally the bottom button gives you the chance to establish a new base
anywhere (besides water) on the map as well as independant radar,
missile battery or UFO yard. You will require multiple bases to be able
to build more of them.

[Category:Manual](Category:Manual "wikilink")
[Category:Geoscape](Category:Geoscape "wikilink")