# Hiring and firing employees

Once you have build at least one living quarters in your base you will
be able to hire employees. From the base screen click on the living
quarters or Employees on the right menu.

Place a check in the box next to the employee to hire them, likewise
clearing the check fires them, if you right a fired employee, it will
remove them from the employee list. You can discard / select them as
often as you want, and they will never get angry at you. But please be
aware that personnel you hire in one base won't be accessible from
another base. So if you want to fire someone make sure you are in the
corresponding base. Also you should keep in mind that the amount of
personnel that can work in your base is limited by the number of living
quarters and you must have enough working space for them to work.

There is no direct fee for employment but you will pay a monthly wage
for each of them.

## Employees screen

![](Employessscreen.jpg "Employessscreen.jpg") Using this screen you can
add further personnel to your organisation. While especially in the
beginning people do not trust in your ability to counter the aliens they
might be more enthusiastic (and therefore willing to work for you) as
you proceed in the game. On the left side you find all members of one
group listed.

### Soldiers

Soldiers handle ground battles. Be it outside or inside the base.
Without soldiers the aliens are almost free to do what they want with
mankind.

A particular attention is given to soldiers as they have all their own
strengths and weaknesses and will get better on the battlefield if they
have the chance to survive.

The first fourth characteristics in green are general and will increase
slowly with the soldier's experience. The five following in blue
describes the ability to use a given kind of weapon and the last in red
is the soldier's health.

### Sciencists

Sciencists works in laboratories and run researches for the PHALANXS
project. Their role is crutial on the long term to have a chance to
reduce the gap between the human technologies and the alien ones and to
understand what they are and discover from where they come.

### Workers

Workers can build anything in a workshop. More of them will make the
construction of equipments faster until the workshop limit is reached.

### Pilots

A pilot can operate any aircraft, but only one at a time. The aircrafts
that don't have an pilot assigned will stay to the base.

## Hire & Fire

[Category:Manual](Category:Manual "wikilink")
[Category:Base](Category:Base "wikilink")