# Introduction

It is the year 2084. Earth, never the most stable of places, enjoys a
time of relative peace. The violent beginnings of the 21st century are
far away now; distant memories, but not so distant that they've been
forgotten. To most of Earth's people, the Second Cold War is a dark
shadow from the past, much like the World Wars were to the children of
the late 20th.

Conflicts have gotten rarer near the end of the century as new
technology and universal health-care finally became available to the
third world. Even the fires of terrorism have cooled in the wake of the
Second Cold War, with its horrors and inhumanities still fresh in the
minds of the people, from the old United States to the ravaged Indian
subcontinent. Class struggles are ascending to the political battlefield
now that every nation is guaranteed fair representation in the UN, and
the global standard of living is slowly on the rise down to the most
impoverished corners of the planet. Countries have solidified,
stabilised around a restructured United Nations that successfully
polices the world governments. Fragmented clumps of smaller nations,
frightened at first by the vast power blocks accumulating around China
and the European Union, have banded together into powerful political
leagues of their own -- then found themselves with no neighbours they
could safely fight. For the first time in the history of mankind, there
is law and order across more than three quarters of the world.

To many people on Earth, it seems like things are going all right.

The first attack hits the city of Mumbai on the 3rd of March, 2084. Six
small UFOs appear out of nowhere and come screaming down from orbit,
undetected by the vast radar installations covering the skies over
Mumbai, and set down in the single most densely-populated city on Earth.
They offer no warning, no explanation. Twenty thousand innocent
civilians and three battalions of elite troops are massacred over the
course of twelve brutal hours before massed Commonwealth soldiers manage
to bring the aliens' advance to a standstill. Then, as suddenly as they
appeared, they retreat to their craft and vanish back into orbit,
leaving only the ravaged streets of Mumbai as evidence.

An emergency meeting of the UN provides no conclusive direction. The
incursions continue faster, larger and more savage than before, this
time in Bonn, Johannesburg and Bangkok. Some nations attempt diplomacy,
sending messages in a thousand different languages to the aliens
ravaging across the countryside. Their words are ignored. Within hours,
all three cities are emptied of human life. The attack is over by the
time the various militaries are given permission to strike back. The
aliens leave nothing behind them but concrete and blood. All the UFOs
disappear without a trace -- but no one doubts they'll be back.

Eighty-seven hours after the initial attack on Mumbai, Earth declares
war. For two weeks, the armies of humanity each try to fend off the
mysterious alien attackers to the best of their ability. They score
precious few successes.

Left with only one alternative, the UN takes action. Ancient equipment
is dusted off, some of it more than a century old, and the long-defunct
anti-extraterrestrial agency of the former United States -- PHALANX --
is resurrected under a new UN banner. Its sworn duty is to combat the
alien threat, and to ensure the survival of the human race at all costs.

Funded by all eight of the political powers, and drawing its soldiers
from the elite of their armies, PHALANX is the best of the best. It is
Earth's first and only line of defence. It can't afford to fail; because
if it does, humanity doesn't stand a chance.

## First Instructions

FROM: SecGen. Mahouf Serra, United Nations, New York City
TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command
DATE: 2084, Mar 21

Welcome to your new post, Commander. You now have full command over the
PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit. Your mission is to protect the
citizens of Earth and stop the alien threat at all costs. How you
accomplish this is up to you; our only requirement is that you succeed.

Your first order of business is to set up a headquarters. The UN has
access to military bases all over the world, so you may consider any
region for your base of operations. Choose the location wisely, because
it will have great influence on the success of the PHALANX project.

A recent analysis of the attacks on Mumbai and Bonn reveal that UFO
sightings and alien activity seems to focus on the most densely
populated regions of Earth, including coastal North- and South-America,
Europe, Eastasia, South and Mediterranean Africa, and Australia. You
should consider including these territories in your field of operations.

Once you've established your first base, you must prepare your soldiers.
The recruits we have assigned to PHALANX must be stationed on your
dropship, then equipped for battle.

Take care of them, Commander. The rest of us are all counting on you,
and praying for you.

That is all. Good luck and good hunting.

[Category:Manual](Category:Manual "wikilink")