# Efficiency and funding statistics

<img src="Stats-2.4.jpg" title="Stats-2.4.jpg" width="256"
alt="Stats-2.4.jpg" /> The PHALANX project must keep high trusting from
the eight nations to stand a strong barrier against the invasion. And
even in this uncertain time, money is still the nerve of war. Without
the funding and support of the nations, the project won't be efficient
enought.

The statistics screen shows global informations about your
installations, employees, costs and fundings. Keep your costs below the
fundings to expand the project on the long run.

## Controlling costs

The costs are listed on the left part of the screen. You can spot the
biggest expenses and check if some are not unecessary.

Expending bases will increase running costs but will allow you to fight
more effectively and on a larger area, as well as having a lot of
employees will allow the research to progress quickly, equip your
soldiers with the bleeding edge equipments and operate worldwide without
recovery time.

## Keeping high funds

<img src="Stats_nation-2.4.jpg" title="Stats_nation-2.4.jpg" width="256"
alt="Stats_nation-2.4.jpg" /> The right part shows how much each nation
is happy with the project. The more happy it is, the more it will accept
funding the project, financialy but also by providing its best employees
to hire.

Clicking on a nation will open the history of funding of all nations in
a graph, leftmost part is current month. Try working harder on the
territory of doubting nations, sell them ovni parts as a proof of
success to increase their trust in the project.

If the project is not supported widely, it will slowly fail until the
defiance of the nations will force the United Nations to stop the
project and find an other alternative, if there is anyone left.