# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Coilgun

Commander, our brainstorms down at DivEngine have come up with an
interesting idea based on the alien Needler technology. When combining
the alien fast-changing magnetic generators -- and, even more
importantly, their power source -- with human-engineered EM rifle
technology, some amazing man-portable weaponry becomes possible. I'd
hereby like to propose a new design for a coilgun in the role of a
sniper rifle.

The Needler is a terrific weapon, but there are undeniable advantages to
delivering one large slug compared to a number of smaller flechettes;
greater stability in flight, better armour-piercing ability, and above
all superior stopping power. There's a reason why our sniper doctrine
calls for one shot to a kill, that the target should be dead before he
even knows the sniper is there.

To this end we plan to adapt the electromagnetic equipment and power
source from the Needler to a larger barrel and a more human-friendly
shape, as well as developing a new slug to maximise damage potential.
The whole package together would be a significant upgrade from our old
S-1 Sniper Rifle, more accurate than the Bolter and with far more kick
than the Needler.

Please let me know when you want us to start, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Coilgun

Commander, I'd like to present you with the finished plans and prototype
for our Coilgun.

Combining an alien-inspired power pack and coil arrangement with some of
our Bolter technology has solved many of the coilgun design's inherent
problems. A hundred years ago, the energy efficiency of coilguns
measured less than 2%; meaning, the energy of the projectile at the time
of impact was less than 2% of the energy used to fire it. Even with
today's technology coilgun efficiency is limited to single digits, but
the alien Needler manages efficiency ratings as high as 70%. It may take
us years to get to that level, but with the Coilgun we've developed
something that is both practical and effective for the war effort.

In order to get better acceleration out of the coils, we've created a
new kind of ammunition, based on the aliens' needle alloy. In shape it's
a fairly standard fin-stabilised penetrator inside a discarding sabot,
but it's made from materials never before seen on Earth. Discarding
sabot rounds are normally used for much larger calibres -- we've
effectively scaled down an anti-tank round -- but the armour-piercing
potential is phenomenal, higher than any other weapon we have. In fact,
the Coilgun is now the highest-calibre infantry weapon on the planet.

We've also incorporated a Needler-style holographic sight, making the
Coilgun extremely accurate and comfortable to fire.

The advantages of a coilgun as a sniper rifle are obvious. There's no
rush of propellant to make noise, no muzzle flash spitting out light and
heat. Unlike even our Bolter, nothing comes out the barrel except the
bullet -- there's no spray of hot metal from the rails to light up the
sniper on infrared. With nothing to reveal the sniper's position except
the noise of the bullet itself breaking the sound barrier, it's possible
to fire and stay undetected, even against alien technology. Best of all,
ballistics tests confirm that it should be able to bring down most
aliens in a single shot.

Of course we've had to make some sacrifices -- high weight due to the
coils and electrical equipment contained in the barrel, low ammunition
capacity due to the high calibre, large and heavy magazines/power packs.
Despite this, I believe the Coilgun should replace most of our SR-1
Sniper Rifles, as it's proving difficult for our conventional weapons to
compete with new enemy armour designs.

Keep the SR-1 in light sniper and anti-infantry roles and move the
Coilgun forward as our main long-range threat. The aliens will come to
fear it.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink")

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Alien Artifact -- Needler`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Needler "wikilink")
` `[`Electromagnetic Rifle`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Bolter_Rifle "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Coilgun`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")