# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Odd Behaviour

Commander,

The live aliens in our Containment unit have begun to display erratic
behaviour since the last tactical mission.

Before, the specimens were barely intelligent, operating solely on
instinct despite their significantly-developed brain structures. Yet
they now seem to be exercising some sort of intelligent control, clearly
communicating through the soundproof cells and operating as a team, even
going so far as to engineer coordinated escape attempts. Sedative darts
were required to subdue the more active specimens.

We believe the new specimens recently added to Containment are having
some sort of effect on the group. They may be higher-ranking members of
the alien hierarchy. If we have captured an alien officer, or if there
is some entirely different cause for the new behaviour, we need to
investigate the how and why of this right away. On behalf of DivBio, I
would like your permission to start a new research project to look into
the matter.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Odd Behaviour

Commander,

We have spent the past few weeks investigating these strange occurrences
in our Containment unit, and we believe we've formulated a theory that
may begin to explain the aliens' newfound intelligence.

It seems that we were off in our preliminary appraisal of how the alien
intellect works. We first believed them to be autonomously operating
individuals, in the same way humans are, though with superior
communications and team tactics. However, our lab experiments and an
intense review of battlefield footage now seem to contradict that
hypothesis.

In our video records, we have often seen the aliens seeking cover,
coordinating their fire, working as a team even though they carry no
obvious communications equipment. However, when we captured a few live
specimens in our Containment unit, they never displayed anything above
the level of animal instinct. This seems incongruous with the evidence
we have; large, well-developed brain structures and a proven knowledge
of combat tactics.

We sought to reconcile these ideas in a new hypothesis, and our
experiments have begun to produce tangible results. The new specimens
certainly are responsible for the strange behaviour we've observed, but
we originally assumed that they were officers of some type under colour
of authority. We now believe that theory to also be wrong. Our
experiments prove that when the aliens are allowed to congregate, with
or without the suspected 'officers', they become significantly more
active and sophisticated. When they are separated from each other for a
large enough distance, they revert back to their basic states. The
conclusion is obvious. There is some kind of communal force binding
these creatures together.

A string of new theories has emerged. The most likely explanation is in
the alien brain. There are several species of alien, all of which meet
the physiological requirements for a sentient species, but they show
little to no brainwave activity of their own. This implies the presence
of some kind of shared or distributed thought between them, a hive mind
that grows more intelligent as it grows in numbers. We're not sure how
it's possible for this hive mind to cross species boundaries; it's
obvious that the different alien races originated on different worlds,
with vastly divergent evolutionary paths, and some species appear to
have been around far longer than others. However, given the aliens'
advanced technology, the 'how' is less of an enigma than the 'why'.

These new findings also seem to suggest that specimens down on Earth are
cut off from the source of their intelligence. While this may be an
important advantage for PHALANX forces, it also brings up threats we had
not yet considered. Our research into alien physiology has established
that isolated specimens cannot survive very long in our environment, and
behave with little enough intelligence while they're on the surface; but
if a large enough number is allowed to escape and coordinate with each
other -- or with alien sympathisers on Earth -- we could be looking at a
serious infiltration risk.

With several specimens on hand, their intelligence now seems to be
approaching the human level. If we can create a suitable translation
device or common language, we believe we may finally be able to
establish communications with aliens in PHALANX captivity. Perhaps some
of our linguists or psychology experts could form a dialogue. This is an
avenue of inquiry that we cannot afford to ignore.

Of course, if such experiments were to be approved by the Base
Commander, I assure you that my team would take full precautions.
Nothing is more important to us than the lives of our men and the
security of our facilities.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Links

- [Live Alien](Aliens/Live_Alien "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 10 live aliens in containment`
` `[`The Alien Mind`](Aliens/The_Alien_Mind "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Alien Communication`](Research/Alien_Communication "wikilink")
` `[`A New Twist`](Storyline/A_New_Twist "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")