Remaining bit of the description, so that we can remove alien_types.txt:

\[ortnok_notes_txt\] Genetically the green skinned Ortnoks seem to be
related very closely to the human race. About 80% of their DNA is
identical compared to the human's. The parts that are different are most
likely genetically engineered because they do not show any individual
variability. The fact that they are genetically altered and that they do
not seem to have any functional reproduction organs suggests that they
are clones made by some as yet unknown alien species. Additionally the
Ortnoks have several cybernetic implants which involve mainly the
cardiovascular system, the muscles, the eyes and the brain. They enhance
the physical strenght and stamnia as well as the senses to a level
superior to any human. The purpose of the brain implants is mostly
unclear but it is believed that they serve as receivers for commands.
But currently this is only a assumption because there is no evidence
proving the existence of such a master-species.

\[ortnok_autopsy_txt\] The green skin is scaly and tough, and cellular
analysis reveals an abundance of chlorophyll, the molecule that makes
plant leaves green. The digestive system does not appear to be
undersized so we can only surmise that the Ortnok must have evolved in
an environment where food could be scarce and falling back on solar
energy was the only option in such situations. The reproductive organs
of this species are very active, only ceasing to function 14 hours after
death. Small wonder the Antareans use them as a limitless supply of
cannon fodder in every terrain they choose to conquer.

\[ortnok_xenobiology_txt\] <TODO>

\[ortnok_interrogation_txt\] <TODO>

Just one little thing: in the paragraph starting with "the eyes are
covered with" there's this sentence: "The ears consist of a series of
small cavities, three on either side of the head, which are surprisingly
large". I think you should fix it (small/large).