# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Needler

Commander, it seems we've recovered a new alien weapon, some kind of
fully-automatic sniper rifle that fires masses of paper-thin needles
made from silicon steel. Preliminary testing shows that the needles are
virtually unaffected by ordinary body armour and will pass through most
surfaces without even slowing down. It's a very interesting design and
we'd like to figure out exactly how it's meant to work.

Please authorise this program at your convenience, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Needler

Commander, we've finished analysing the alien needler gun, and I've
prepared a threat assessment and technical overview for you.

As I mentioned in my research proposal, the needler is indeed a type of
sniper rifle, but an unusual one. It ignores the normal concept of
firing powerful slugs to make single, long-range kills. Instead it
vomits out hundreds and hundreds of ultra-fast silicon steel needles
which can easily tear apart a target at any range.

The needles are fired by a fast-changing magnetic field inside the
barrel, hooked up to a feed mechanism that injects thousands of needles
a minute into the barrel. This creates a near-constant stream of fire
which lasts for as long as you hold down the trigger and the magazine
holds out. Unlike bullets, these needles have a practically flat
trajectory from muzzle to target. They punch through most armour like it
doesn't exist. They're so low in mass that there's little appreciable
recoil when firing, giving them excellent accuracy, but at the same time
thin enough to avoid being overly affected by weather. Wind, rain and
physical obstructions can knock some of the needles off course but not
enough to make the weapon much less effective.

One of the main components that caught my attention is the powerful
electromagnet array. It's laid out as a 'coilgun', many electromagnetic
coils wrapped around the barrel, a method we'd previously thought to be
too energy-inefficient to use on the battlefield. The aliens seem to
have made it viable through clever use of superconductors and alien
engineering. We may be able to adapt this technology to our own EM
weapons research, I'll take a closer look and get back to you when I
have anything concrete.

Instead of an ordinary top-mounted sniper scope, the aliens have
incorporated a highly effective holographic aiming mechanism and
rangefinder which projects directly in front of the user's leading eye.
Targets are shown with absolute clarity at any range, the sight
automatically compensates for natural body motions, and it will even
tell the user the exact chances of scoring a hit at any time. We've run
this thing by our own troops and -- once they got used to it -- the
alien holo-sight was the preferred choice by an amazing 100% compared to
our own scopes. If we can adapt and duplicate this sight in a
self-contained package, we could create the ultimate aiming unit to use
on any of our rifles, possibly even some handguns.

Equipped with a bipod for prone firing and a very large magazine, the
needler is a serious threat to our troops. Snipers can inflict serious
casualties on exposed troops and we cannot afford the losses. If a
needler is spotted, our soldiers will have to make optimal use of cover
and try to flank whilst staying out of sight. A direct assault on an
entrenched needler gun will likely prove suicidal and I don't recommend
anyone to try it, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink")

## Links

- [Sniper Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Sniper_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Needler](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Needler "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Long range.

2\) Very high rate of fire.

3\) Large magazines.

4\) High accuracy.

*Con:*

1\) Low damage.

2\) 2x2 magazines.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Needler`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Needler`
` Enables production -- Needler Magazine`
` `[`Coilgun`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Coilgun "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")