# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Man-Portable Particle Beams

Commander, we've decided that more research is badly needed on the
particle beam weaponry, especially their mysterious power source, the
magazines which we've been utterly unable to examine. No amount of
finesse or ingenuity has been able to open them. That's why I'm hereby
proposing extreme measures.

I want to use our lab's radiation chamber to bombard one of the
magazines with electromagnetic pulses. destroying most of the internal
electronics, and hopefully causing it to shut down. Once it's safely
deactivated, we can use brute force to open it up.

Destroying a magazine to find out how it works may seem crude and
backwards, but we have no other choice at the moment. Even blasted to
hell by EMP, it should help us answer a lot of questions about the
aliens' particle beam technology. It may also give us clues as to how we
can get inside an undamaged magazine.

Once we know how the magazine works, we can reassess the weapons and
we'll hopefully be able to tell you how it all fits together, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Man-Portable Particle Beams

Commander, my method worked. I think we've managed to crack the secrets
of the mysterious particle beam weaponry. Here are my conclusions.

The appearance of man-portable particle beam weaponry suggests a serious
escalation in this war. Prior to being shot at with it, we had no idea
that the aliens possessed such advanced technology, and we have no idea
why it was not deployed before now. The aliens' motivations and strategy
remain a complete mystery to us. Still, I don't believe I'm overstating
the issue that these weapons change everything.

When I try to describe this, you have to understand that I'm not talking
about the actual weapons. As I've mentioned in my reports, the weapons
themselves are basically nothing more than a metal shell around a set of
magnets and electrostatic lenses, all used for focusing and constricting
the particle beam. The real magic happens in a space about the size of
my fist. I'm talking about what we have previously thought of as the
'magazine', until now. What it actually is is unbelievable.

Each individual magazine is actually a synchrotron particle accelerator
of mind-blowingly tiny proportions, wrapped around a battery pack so
small that we can't even begin to imagine how they built it. The
synchrotron speeds particles round and round in a very small circle --
less than the diameter of the magazine -- until they've achieved
sufficient velocity. The particles are then diverted via a magnetic
field into the focusing array, where they are magnetically constricted
-- 'pinched' -- into a coherent beam.

Commander, there is no chance in hell that we can build accelerators
this complex this small. Not in our lifetimes. Neither we at PHALANX nor
the rest of the world have the precision machinery or the knowledge
necessary to duplicate the alien technology. We've documented how the
weapons works, and they're simple enough to produce, but if we actually
want to use them we're going to have to scrounge magazines off the
aliens. Worse, these little accelerators are put under tremendous
amounts of strain in their lifetimes, and they'll start to malfunction
after being used only a few times. Our ammo supply will be spotty at
best, limited to whatever we can recover in the field.

If the aliens have widespread access to this sort of technology, and
they obviously do, I couldn't tell you why they haven't just waltzed in
and mashed humanity into paste. Their war machine is several orders of
magnitude greater than ours. Their technology is more advanced, they
have more numbers and better aircraft, and yet they're still coming at
us in fits and starts. It's baffling. However, any good soldier will
tell you that 'why' doesn't matter right now. They're the ones making
the mistake and it's up to us to take advantage of it.

We need to upgrade, upgun, and uptrain everything we have, Commander.
Everything. We have to be ready before they start getting really serious
about this war.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Particle Beam Pistol`](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Pistol "wikilink")
` `[`Particle Beam Rifle`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Rifle "wikilink")
` `[`Particle Beam Cannon`](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Particle_Beam_Cannon "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")