## Blueprints -- Power Plant

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 16 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Powerplant.png "Powerplant.png")PHALANX has had trouble generating
enough power to meet its needs ever since the organisation was first
conceived in 1955. The old bases were forced to constantly pump in
electricity from large, non-emitting sources (like hydroelectric dams)
via many kilometres of wiring. They were completely dependent on outside
power and were paralysed whenever the grid went down. It has taken the
Russian nuclear revolution to enable full electrical autonomy for our
underground bases, even when factoring high-energy research.

Our plant of choice is the German HEFR (High-Energy Fission Reactor), a
very efficient energy amplifier design. It is a subcritical reactor, a
reactor that produces fission without achieving a sustained chain
reaction. Instead it uses an external source of neutrons -- in this case
a particle accelerator -- to stimulate the reaction. This method
releases enough power to keep the particle accelerator running, as well
as a power surplus that is redirected to feed the rest of the base.

The HEFR runs on thorium rather than uranium, and most of its waste
output will decay naturally to the radioactive level of coal ash in only
500 years. By comparison, the half-lives of the isotopes most frequently
used in nuclear weapons and old reactors are 24,110 years for plutonium
(Pu-239) and **700 million years** for uranium (U-235). The short-lived
waste output is particularly easy to handle for the depleted element
postprocessor integrated into the design. After a full trip through the
postprocessor, the HEFR's reactor waste will take only weeks to decay to
human-safe levels of radioactivity.

In our design, the reactor core and operational machinery are built into
a special shell located far deeper than the rest of the base. Only the
coolant tanks and control/service entrances poke up to the base level.
This protects against the possible but minuscule risk of a meltdown in
case we completely lose refrigeration of the core.

I admit, I copied half of the specifics verbatim from the various briefs
I've read -- nuclear physics are a touch above my head -- but I
understand the stats well enough. The power output of one plant is
enough to fully meet the needs of a standard base. If a base is equipped
with many high-energy buildings such as laboratories, a second plant may
be required, but a subsequent increase in base defences and security
will be required to properly protect it. We can easily and safely store
enough fuel on-site for a decade of continued operation. A protected
container is installed with every reactor, and it can be refuelled if
necessary.

### Recommended Doctrine

Every base needs at least one power plant. Without a power plant, many
facilities -- including the Command Centre -- can't function. Bases with
exceptional power use may need two or more to keep all our facilities
working at top performance.

Our base defence strategy should pay particular attention to defending
the power plant. Damage to the coolant tanks could be disastrous; if we
lose too much coolant a meltdown will be hard to avoid. We may consider
stepping down the reactor in anticipation of an attack, but it would
take a long time to get it started up again, during which we wouldn't be
able to operate any energy-intensive equipment. Things like radar,
laboratory equipment, even hangar lifts.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")