# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Alien Artifact -- Alien Medium Armour

Commander, we've salvaged a new suit of alien armour from the field.
It's much heavier than the alien armour we've encountered previously,
and it seems to stop ordinary firearms without taking so much as a
scratch. Its trauma plates are made of the densest CNT (Carbon Nanotube)
weave I've ever seen. We need to research this armour right away to
determine which weapons will remain effective against aliens wearing it,
and to try and find a method to replicate it for our own troops. As long
as we can't match this technology, we are at a severe disadvantage.

This project will require a significant amount of lab time and funding.
Work will start as soon as we have your authorisation, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Alien Medium Armour

Where armour is concerned, the aliens' design philosophy seems to be,
"If it works, let's use more of it." This new armour is similar in
design to the alien body armour, but it does away with the compromises
and delicate balances of light armour. Instead of just protecting the
torso and head, the medium armour attempts to cover all vital areas with
much more dense nanopolymer plates, including major arteries and
sensitive nerve clusters. In comparison with the alien body armour, the
medium suit has double the number of nanotube strands per square
centimetre. As a result these plates are nearly impenetrable to standard
human firearms and even the softer mesh covering the joints can stop
bullets with disturbing ease.

As I mentioned before, the suit strongly emphasises protection over
mobility. The large trauma plates get in the wearer's way no matter what
race or size he might be, and the dense nanotube polymers used are so
heavy that the overall weight will slow down even an Ortnok. There are
numerous mini-servos and other mechanical parts that help deal with some
of the weight, but their effect is limited overall. Other devices are
integrated into the armour to assist aiming and vision. These are quite
interesting and we may be able to replicate them on a larger scale as
weapon enhancements.

The aliens seem to have designed this armour with the war against
humanity in mind. Besides being virtually bulletproof, its performance
against lasers, incendiary and plasma weapons is much improved over the
Alien Body Armour, though it's still somewhat vulnerable to particle
beams. Aliens wearing this armour will suffer minimal damage from
crossing open flame or brief shots from our flamethrower, but prolonged
exposure will still overheat the suit and cook the alien inside.

In better news, the armour does not fully enclose the alien, leaving
some skin or breathing passages exposed to air. That means blister gas
will remain effective, though it will take longer for the gas to reach
its full effect.

The alien suits won't fit our troops without modifications that would
critically weaken them. We've taken a few stabs at replicating the dense
nanopolymers, but our Workshop machinery is currently unable to weave so
many nanotubes at once. I have a few ideas about how to upgrade it,
though, as well as some designs for a new armour to take advantage of
those upgrades. The proposal should be in your queue now, Commander.

Now please excuse me, sir -- I was due in my rack twelve hours ago and I
think my eyes are starting to bleed. Goodnight!

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

- [Nanocomposite
  Armour](Equipment/Armour/Nanocomposite_Armour "wikilink")