## Technical Specifications: TR-20 Rocket Pod

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

Now that we have aircraft capable of intercepting the attacking UFOs, we
need to equip them with armaments that can actually shoot down these
alien craft. We have evaluated every available weapon on Earth as part
of the Excalibur Program, and we have selected the very best for the
defence of our planet.

The TR-20 rocket pod is an interesting departure from conventional
air-to-air weapons, in that it was originally designed for air-to-ground
operations. The pod contains a total of 152 very small, very fast
rockets with depleted uranium tips and powerful pulse detonation
engines. No one considered using the TR-20 for anything other than
chewing up ground targets until an attack helicopter pilot in Africa
discovered their potential.

At the time, the pilot -- the last surviving member of his flight -- had
been cornered against a mountain by three MiG jets which were closing in
for the kill. With nearly all his weapons expended, the only thing the
pilot had left to fight with was one pod of TR-20 rockets. He made a
suicide run with full afterburners, and managed to swat all three MiGs
out of the sky with rapid fire before he ran out of fuel and had to
crash-land. He returned to his airbase two days later without a scratch
on him.

Though unguided, TR-20 pods contain such a large number of rockets that
they can be used almost like a rocket machine gun. This is because the
rockets are stacked nose to tail inside their launch tubes, eight to
each tube, and fired electronically in a timed sequence. This system is
so fast that all eight rockets in a tube can be ignited and underway
before the first rocket actually leaves the tube. At its maximum
possible rate of fire, the pod can fire all 152 rockets in 0.2 seconds.
However, this is usually throttled back to approx. 300 rounds per minute
due to the low accuracy of any single volley.

The advantages of the TR-20 over the SHIVA cannon are increased range
and greater hitting power. However, the pod's ammo capacity is limited
compared to the SHIVA's large portable magazines, and a single TR-20 pod
is unlikely to last through a full UFO engagement.

### Recommended Doctrine

We anticipate the TR-20 will perform nicely against slower or
slow-moving UFOs, especially if their propulsion systems have been
damaged somehow. In these situations, TR-20 rockets perform with flying
colours, tearing mercilessly into a target. However, accuracy drops
rapidly against faster opponents. Damage potential is irrelevant if we
can't place a single round on the target.

For this reason, it's recommended we use the TR-20 in moderation and
mostly in situations that play to its strengths, such as when engaging a
single UFO with multiple aircraft. The flight leader can drive the
target into his wingman's killzone with cannons or guided weapons, at
which point the wingman has a clear shot with his rockets. Even so, no
more than a single TR-20 pod should be loaded on any one aircraft for
maximum air-to-air efficiency.

If the mission target is stationary or ground-based, these rockets will
be ideal for softening up any defences and defenders before a tactical
mission.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [unguided ordnance](Skills/unguided "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")