# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok

Commander,

We've recovered a new alien corpse from the battlefield. We should begin
dissection and assessment as soon as possible.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Autopsy -- Ortnok

Commander,

The autopsy and evaluation of the green alien specimen is complete. I'm
hereby submitting my summary for your review.

The first thing we noticed about this species, which has been named the
'Ortnok', is its size. Its appearence is like a brutish, hulking
caricature of a man, something that can be quite disturbing to our
agents in the field, but we've confirmed that the Ortnok is in no way
genetically related to humanity.

In proportion to its body weight, the Ortnok has more muscle than a
professional body builder. At first we concluded this was solely the
product of an extreme-heavy-gravity homeworld, but subsequent hormone
and toxicology work on our specimen have revealed something interesting.
The subject seems to have been raised from birth on a heavy diet of
genetic tampering and anabolic steroids. This, combined with the
incredible density of the muscle tissue, makes the Ortnok physically
stronger than any biological entity on Earth.

During our first incisions, we were surprised to find the Ortnok to be
without blood. It has lungs, viscera and something akin to digestive
organs, but no liver or heart that we can identify. Instead of veins
there is a very well-developed system of nerve tubes, filled with a kind
of electrically conductive gel, that seems to power and control the
muscles by direct electrical stimulation. The needed electricity is
generated through digestion of organic matter and stored in a set of
large eel-like organs underneath the lungs. The nervous system itself is
nourished by the leftover products of the digestion process by way of
veins filled with pressurised air. The whole chest cavity has been
richly furnished with armour plating inserted just underneath the
leathery green skin.

The eyes are covered with surgically-implanted lenses that improve the
Ortnok's already excellent vision, stretching it into the infrared
spectrum. The ears consist of a series of small cavities, three on
either side of the head, which are surprisingly large and
well-developed. Given the evidence we must conclude that Ortnoks have
acute hearing, though the nose and olfactory organs are quite small,
atrophied almost to the point of being vestigial.

From the autopsy and our analysis of battlefield footage, we can
conclude the following:

\- The brain is fairly small for a hominid of such size, no larger than
that of Homo erectus, but it is perhaps sufficient for the role of foot
soldier. Ortnoks certainly don't display any tactical sluggishness on
the battlefield.

\- The three-fingered hand is able to carry and use a wide variety of
equipment. However, Ortnoks are most often equipped with heavy weapons
to match their size.

\- Ortnoks are strong, tough and dangerous. Their internal armour
enhances their natural endurance even further, making them difficult to
take down. Armour-piercing rounds or incendiary weapons are recommended.
Lasers, explosives and cutting weapons will not be very effective due to
the extensive armouring.

\- All Ortnok specimens we've seen so far were not equipped with
reproductive organs. From surgical scarring around the groin area, we
believe they may have been neutered for some reason.

In combat, specimens seem to be used most often in the role of heavy
infantry and fire support. They are not particularly accurate with their
somewhat cumbersome weapons, but when working in numbers they usually
lay down enough fire to suppress and then annihilate a PHALANX squad.
Ortnoks do not seem to serve in many specialist capacities; they are
never used as technicians according to our camera observations, and
usually busy themselves handling perimeter security for the Tamans when
not engaged in combat.

We have no idea quite where the name 'Ortnok' came from. The troops
don't seem to know, and neither do we. Still, it's as good a name as
any, and it seems to have stuck.

That's all I have for you right now, Commander. I'll contact you again
as soon as something new develops.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Ortnok corpse`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Alien Breathing Apparatus`](Research/Alien_Breathing_Apparatus "wikilink")` (if not yet opened; can also be opened by`
` `[`Alien Autopsy -- Taman`](Aliens/Taman "wikilink")` or `[`Alien Autopsy -- Shevaar`](Aliens/Shevaar "wikilink")`)`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aliens](Category:Aliens "wikilink")