## Technical Specifications: TR-20 Rocket

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This is a TR-20 unguided rocket. It is designed to be loaded into the
TR-20 Rocket Pod.

The TR-20 rocket is essentially a very small, very fast plastic dart
moulded around a rod of depleted uranium. It is fin-stabilised and
powered by a cheap solid-fuel rocket engine, a civilian model which is
also popular in amateur rocketry. One of these engines is capable of
propelling an amateur rocket eight kilometres into the sky. It's also
capable of propelling a heavy DU penetrator into a fighter jet and out
the other side.

Though unguided, TR-20 pods contain such a large number of rockets that
they can be used almost like a rocket machine gun. This is because the
rockets are stacked nose to tail inside their launch tubes, eight to
each tube, and fired electronically in a timed sequence. This system is
so fast that all eight rockets in a tube can be ignited and underway
before the first rocket actually leaves the tube. At its maximum
possible rate of fire, the pod can fire all 152 rockets in 0.2 seconds.
However, this is usually throttled back to approx. 300 rounds per minute
due to the low accuracy of any single volley.

Due to its weight, the TR-20 rocket has a maximum effective range of 4
kilometres, after which the fuel runs out and the rocket rapidly loses
power.

The individual rockets weigh approximately 4 kilos. A fully-loaded pod
is approximately 540 kilos.

### Recommended Doctrine

We anticipate the TR-20 will perform nicely against slower or
slow-moving UFOs, especially if their propulsion systems have been
damaged somehow. In these situations, TR-20 rockets perform with flying
colours, tearing mercilessly into a target. However, accuracy drops
rapidly against faster opponents. Damage potential is irrelevant if we
can't place a single round on the target.

For this reason, it's recommended we use the TR-20 in moderation and
mostly in situations that play to its strengths, such as when engaging a
single UFO with multiple aircraft. The flight leader can drive the
target into his wingman's killzone with cannons or guided weapons, at
which point the wingman has a clear shot with his rockets. Even so, no
more than a single TR-20 pod should be loaded on any one aircraft for
maximum air-to-air efficiency.

If the mission target is stationary or ground-based, these rockets will
be ideal for softening up any defences and defenders before a tactical
mission.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [unguided ordnance](Skills/unguided "wikilink")

## Links

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")