## Aircraft Evaluation -- Stiletto-class Interceptor

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 04 November 2026

By: Dr. Richard Strohm, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

I'm very happy to report that the first production model of our
next-generation interceptor has been completed and passed all of its
flight tests with flying colours. At the risk of sounding boastful, it
may be the finest piece of human technology ever produced.

The Stiletto is a single-seat air superiority fighter with VTOL
(Vertical Take-Off and Landing) capability, allowing it to set down on
tiny landing pads or in the middle of nowhere if necessary. Its huge,
high-performance turbofans can turn 360 degrees for full manoeuvrability
even at supersonic speeds. The giant engine intakes are protected by a
sophisticated air channeling system that actively filters the air in
front of the engine and redirects any piece of material large enough to
harm the fan blades. They are more than powerful enough to lift the
heavily-armoured fuselage and can hover unassisted for up to two hours
before burning through all their fuel.

The helicopter-like design may not look very fast, but appearances can
be deceiving. The Stiletto's compact airframe can survive anything up to
Mach 2 for short periods of time; it has a cruising speed of Mach 1.3
and a max velocity of 2.1 on afterburners. These high marks put the
Stiletto well ahead of many military jet fighters which do not have
supercruise ability.

Once in the air, it can jump like a jackrabbit and is utterly ruthless
in the hands of an experienced pilot. It can turn laterally around its
hangar complex in six seconds whilst keeping its nose machine gun on the
target at all times. It can flip end over end in point-three seconds and
acquire missile lock on stealth aircraft before the turn is even
complete.

Missiles are fitted on hardpoints mounted just under the outer winglets.
The Stiletto also has powerful Electronic Warfare capabilities, with a
state-of-the-art sensor suite contained inside the nose that includes --
but is not limited to -- several targeting lasers, a sophisticated radar
system, and optical imaging as powerful as any spy satellite. Small ECM
emitters placed in strategic points across the fuselage will throw off
missile lock and can actively jam incoming radar. The weapon hardpoints
can take a variety of armaments, and the electronics are fully modular
to accept upgrades. Remember, however, that space in this craft is at a
premium.

The powerful Volkot VO-36 engines consume a large amount of fuel, and
the Stiletto's capacity is not large. Leaving enough fuel for
interception, its maximum effective range is no greater than 2000
kilometres. However, within this radius, this craft is the master of all
it surveys.

Please note that because of its exceptional performance this craft is
not recommended for use by novice pilots. Its handling at low speeds has
been described by our test crews as 'tricky'.

The Stiletto requires 1 Small Hangar for storage, maintenance and
deployment. It has 3 weapon hardpoints; 1 small nose mount and 2 medium
wing mounts.

### Recommended Doctrine

The Stiletto is ideal for short-range interception of hostile craft that
threaten PHALANX bases or nearby civilian targets. It can go toe-to-toe
with anything on Earth and it will win. However, the Stiletto can't be
deployed against targets more distant than 2000 kilometres from its
hangar as it won't have enough fuel for both attack manoeuvres and the
flight back to base. Inflight refuelling may be considered to extend the
combat radius, but will require additional development.

Performance against extraterrestrial craft can't be measured, of course,
but the best we can do is the best we can do. If a real alien threat
comes for us in our lifetimes and the Stiletto won't do the job, then
the human race is in trouble.

### Addenda

Addendum, Cdr. Paul Navarre, 18 March 2084:

Commander, I've just looked at these Stiletto-class ships on paper and
in person, and they have blown my mind. It's hard to believe we built
these little things in 2026 -- and that no one ever realised the kind of
gold they held in their hands until now. What we have here is probably
the most manoeuvrable aircraft ever built; it puts attack helicopters to
shame and can turn circles around state-of-the-art jets. It does things
most modern aircraft can't even dream of.

It's also a nightmare to fly due to its inherent instability, especially
at speed. The original file badly underplays that part of the tech
assessment. However, Commander al-Kuhar of the air wing insists that our
pilots can handle it, and I think I believe him. Even better, we've
managed to track down a complete intact specimen, and it's in the shop
right now being restored to operation. I've given the go-ahead for a
full refit and flight testing on my own authority.

This is simply the best knife-fighting aircraft I have ever laid eyes
on. We're going to need it.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Links

[300px](image:New_Stiletto.jpg "wikilink")

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")