Now, lets get the discussion going. What would fit the game best? To
make it a Light Machinegun may not be the best of ideas, because
honestly, it'd be nothing more than a faster ROF assault rifle. Sure,
they would be some range and TU tweaks, to be sure to differentiate
between an Assault Rifle and a LMG, but the game may be better served by
having either a General Purpose Machine Gun or Heavy Machinegun. A heavy
machinegun would be firing a round either on par with the sniper rifle,
or better, depending on what theoretical caliber the sniper rifle uses.
The last concept would be a general purpose machine gun, which would be
firing a round comparable or less than the sniper rifle, again depending
on the caliber. [KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 23:55, 7 September
2006 (CEST)

Yes, I thing SAW (squad assault weapon) is needed. Burst accuracy is
small, but have big impact if hit enemy (one MG bullet can have same
effect as 2 or 3 bullets from AR and MG bullet have always higher
penetration ratio than bullet from AG at the same caliber). And MG and
round for SR are commongly same (e.q. M2-HB (12,7mm) and Barret sniper
rifle (M-82?) using same round, same for Dragunov and RPK).


Actually, a SAW is almost always using an assault rifle round like the
5.56 Nato or 5.45 Warsaw round.
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squad_automatic_weapon> Additionally, the
[Dragunov](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dragunov_Sniper_Rifle) uses the
7.62x54mm (rimmed) round not the .50 BMG round. And the
[RKP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RPK) uses the 7.62 x 39 mm Warsaw
round. That's why I would suggest a [General Purprose
Machinegun](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_purpose_machine_gun),
something firing an equivilency of the heavier 7.62x51mm Nato round.
[KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 06:30, 12 September 2006 (CEST)

--[Sirg](User:Sirg "wikilink") 17:05, 28 September 2006 (CEST): I
understand that no real-world weapons are accepted. However, ... just
this time I would mention the Browning M2 .50 cal machinegun, used from
the first war until present day. It's very heavy to be used in a
standing position, usually it's mounted on aircraft or vechicles, but it
can be used like suggested, in a kneel down position. My opinion is that
such a weapon - a SAW - is bulky and useless in close combat situation,
like most of the UFO-AI missions, but it's cool to fire burst of .50 cal
rounds! As a compromise I would suggest reviving the good ol\`
auto-cannon as a versatile chaingun.

OK, since there is a LMG already now, how about a HMG? A support weapon
which has to be deployed first, as the OP said firing large-claibre SR
ammunition but in bursts. --[Takai](User:Takai "wikilink") 18:55, 23
December 2007 (CET)