Hate to be a spoil-sport, but I question the usefulness of such a
weapon. Best to remember that generally, the only military issued melee
weapons are clubs for police action, ceremonial swords, bayonettes,
knives and the occasional Axe/Tomahawk/Combat-Shovel.
[KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 07:26, 16 September 2006 (CEST)


How often do modern soldiers battle small squads of extremely heavily
armored infantry in urban terrain with one of the objectives to capture
them alive? --[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 21:17, 16 September
2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



Again, something that would be better served by tranquilization weapons,
stun batons and so on. [KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 08:08, 17
September 2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



True, but these are not effective with some armor types, some
physiologies of the targets, especially if we don't know the
physiologies, etc. Stunning by blunt weapon always works.
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 12:32, 17 September 2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



That's also not exactly true, stunning by blunt trauma depends a lot on
physiology, which the enemy in this case will have significantly
different psysiology than earth creatures. Additionally, with most armor
types, you'd be hard pressed to damage someone with a quarter staff
wearing the armor we have in 2006, let alone 2084. Then combine the fact
that the enemy will have even more advanced technology than Earth
at 2084. [KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 19:45, 17 September 2006
(CEST)

<!-- -->



OK, so not necessarily stun, but at least throw off balance, disarm,
perhaps tumble, peraps break a wrist or a knee. I think all of this is
quite likely even with the best current armor, even such that will
hardly let any bullet in. And only the biggest bullets at right angles
can have similar effects, I imagine.
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 22:56, 17 September 2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



Bandobras, I don't want to be rude, and I'm not trying to be insulting,
but you really don't know anything about weapons or armour. Please,
PLEASE, I'm begging you -- just stop discussing them! It would save us
all a lot of time that would otherwise be spent refuting your uneducated
opinions with facts. Over, and over, and over . . .

<!-- -->



Winter, I believe in your good intentions in this issue and, fair
enough, I have no clue about weapons or armour. But:

\* nobody's forced to discuss this with me, there is even no real threat
of including non-ad-hoc blunt weapons to UFO:AI in any forseeable future

\* this is the only discussion about blunt weapons inside UFO:AI, AFAIK,
and concluding this discussion properly would save us from repeating
inconclusive quarells about the subject in the future

\* I am smart enough to be explained in semi-scientific terms why such
weapons are absurd or unlikely, without just saying "everybody knows
that" or "the idea is stupid" or "I know all about this topic and I have
a hunch this must be so, but I'm not learned enough to explain it in
scientific terms and I don't want to admit it". The additional advantage
of such explanation in layman terms, however simplified it would be, is
that it will be understandable to many other nonprofessional readers,
and we want and will have contributions from non-professionals (mods for
UFO:AI, game-play feedback, etc.), even if we will be lucky enough to
not need radom contributions for the main content.

\* however, to show my respect for your work and your official
responsibility in UFO:AI team I will stop discussing this issue for now.
If somebody else picks it up, let's hope some of this discussion can be
reused, instead of repeating it all over...
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 19:43, 18 September 2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



Back on topic, any armour that stops bullets has more than enough
padding to render any blunt weapon completely ineffective, especially
something as silly as a three-piece quarterstaff. There's a reason why
medieval weapons haven't been used since the middle ages. Several
reasons, actually. If those reasons are not self-evident to you, you
need to do a LOT more reading on the subject. --
[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")


I perfectly agree. I'd believe that if you wanted a non-eletrical,
non-drug based immobilization, you would have to resort to using some
sort of Non-Lethal-Rigid-Foam weapon, or the like. A futuristic
expansion on military non-lethal programs.
[KingMob](User:KingMob "wikilink") 21:30, 18 September 2006 (CEST)


Some kind of weapon that shoots immobilising foam, you mean? I could
totally go for that, because it would be cool AND realistic. --
[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink")