# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Heavy Laser

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

Thanks to the experience we've gained from our Continuous Wave Laser
research, my team and I have figured out one or two possible ways to
further amplify the damage output of our infantry lasers. However, this
will require significant research and refining of our prototype, as well
as enlarging several of the components.

We estimate that this weapon could be invaluable in a fire support role
or as a direct-fire blockade breaker, capable of dissolving enemy
strongpoints with powerful, pinpoint accurate fire.

It's certainly worth looking into, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Heavy Laser

Commander, our heavy laser program has been a success. We've got it
prototyped and ready to go into production at your say-so.

As promised, the heavy laser is a revolution in our arsenal. In the
hands of a qualified soldier, it can provide long-range continuous wave
fire that is more powerful than our other infantry laser designs. We in
DivEngine have no doubt that it will serve a vital role throughout the
war.

This is not to say the heavy laser doesn't have its downsides. For one,
it's very bulky and very heavy. While the weapon itself is very heavy,
soldiers in the field will likely find it difficult to reproduce the
accuracy or speed of smaller laser weapons. Its ammo consumption is
staggering. It can chew through a full deuterium-fluoride cartridge at
an incredible rate. This requires a number of magazines to be kept on
hand, and the heavy laser is not particularly quick to reload.

Great care will also have to be taken that no bystanders or PHALANX
troops get into the path of the invisible beam. Even momentary exposure
to an unobstructed beam will char bone and liquefy flesh. A hit to the
eyes will result in permanent, irreparable blindness. We've talked to
our training and field officers about this and have underlined safety in
our field manual at every turn, but it won't hurt the troops to hear it
again from you, Commander.

Robotic or armoured aliens may be able to survive a beam for some time,
even from a heavy laser, before their armour fails. It's recommended to
engage these with several soldiers at once and concentrate fire in order
to bring them down as quickly as possible.

It's also recommended that you not replace all our conventional heavy
weapons with heavy lasers, Commander. We need a good balance of weapons
to play to the strengths of our troops and to the weaknesses of the
aliens. A varied arsenal is a healthy arsenal, and can't be easily
defended against.

We'll need to have at least one D-F Cartridge on hand at all times in
order to be able to load and use a heavy laser.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [laser](Damage/laser "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Bolter Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Bolter_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Laser Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Laser_Rifle "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high accuracy.

2\) Good range.

*Con:*

1\) Cannot shoot through smoke/gas/fire.

2\) Small magazines.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Heavy Laser`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")