# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Heavy Laser

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

Thanks to the experience we've gained from our Continuous Wave Laser
research, my team and I have figured out one or two possible ways to
further amplify the damage output of our infantry lasers. However, this
will require significant research and refining of our prototype, as well
as enlarging several of the components. The result will be a strictly
heavy-infantry weapon of about the same size and weight as our HPML
Rocket Launcher.

We estimate that this weapon could be invaluable in a fire support role
or as a direct-fire blockade breaker, capable of dissolving enemy
strongpoints with powerful, pinpoint accurate fire. It would have
attributes and capabilities which may be lacking in our current heavy
weapons arsenal. Accuracy at range is generally abysmal in Earth-built
heavy weapons, and they can be difficult to employ in situations where
we need to avoid collateral damage. The heavy laser would avoid these
issues altogether.

It's certainly worth looking into, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Heavy Laser

Commander, our heavy laser program has been a success. We've got it
prototyped and ready to go into production at your say-so.

As promised, the heavy laser is a revolution in our heavy weapons
arsenal. In the hands of a qualified soldier, it can provide long-range
continuous wave fire that is both far more accurate than conventional
heavy weapons and far more powerful than our other infantry laser
designs. We in DivEngine have no doubt that it will serve a vital role
throughout the war.

This is not to say the heavy laser doesn't have its downsides. For one,
it's very bulky and very heavy, requiring a strong troop to shoot it
effectively. It doesn't sacrifice accuracy despite its size, but it's
less quick to fire or respond than we would like, and its ammo
consumption is staggering. It can chew through a full deuterium-fluoride
cartridge in only 30 seconds of continuous fire. This requires a large
number of magazines to be kept on hand, and the heavy laser is not
particularly quick to reload.

Another weakness is the fact that the heavy laser cannot shoot through
clouds of smoke, gas or fire. All our lasers have this problem; clouds
of material will quickly refract the beam into harmless light, so we'll
have to be careful about our application of smoke and incendiary
weapons. Great care will also have to be taken that no bystanders or
PHALANX troops get into the path of the invisible beam. Even momentary
exposure to an unobstructed beam will char bone and liquefy flesh. A hit
to the eyes will result in permanent, irreparable blindness. We've
talked to our training and field officers about this and have underlined
safety in our field manual at every turn, but it won't hurt the troops
to hear it again from you, Commander.

Robotic or armoured aliens may be able to survive a beam for some time,
even from a heavy laser, before their armour fails. It's recommended to
engage these with several soldiers at once and concentrate fire in order
to bring them down as quickly as possible.

It's also recommended that you not replace all our conventional heavy
weapons with heavy lasers, Commander. We need a good balance of weapons
to play to the strengths of our troops and to the weaknesses of the
aliens. A varied arsenal is a healthy arsenal, and can't be easily
defended against.

We'll need to have at least one D-F Cartridge on hand at all times in
order to be able to load and use a heavy laser.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [laser](Damage/laser "wikilink")

### Skill

- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Bolter Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Bolter_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Laser Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Laser_Rifle "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high accuracy.

2\) Good range.

*Con:*

1\) Cannot shoot through smoke/gas/fire.

2\) Small magazines.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Heavy Laser`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")