# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Base-Defence Laser Turret

This is one of several proposals I'm submitting for the research and
development of new laser weaponry. Each of these will have to be
developed separately due to the size differences, power levels and
complexity of the systems involved.

Our CW laser program has been successful in miniaturising and lightening
the necessary components for a powerful deuterium-fluoride reaction.
However, the advances we've made aren't just useful for infantry weapons
and small cannon. We want to prototype some of our upgrades in existing
surface-to-air laser arrays, allowing us to track and fire continuous
high-powered beams at a power level that our plants can comfortably
handle.

Given the various shortcomings of our SAMs (Surface-to-Air Missiles)
against alien technology, I don't need to tell you all the advantages of
having a direct-fire laser defence system. It won't be a full
replacement for our missile installations, but it's definitely an avenue
worth exploring in order to help defend our bases from alien incursions.

Please approve this program at your discretion, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Base-Defence Laser Turret

Commander, my team and I are happy to report our test weapons are living
up to all our expectations, and I'm submitting a new set of blueprints
to your system for a laser-based defensive facility. You will now be
able greenlight them for construction.

Here are the highlights.

What we've done is we've stripped down our pre-existing SAM turret
design and modified it to fit an upscaled deuterium-fluoride reaction
chamber. We've beefed up the electrical systems to help amplify beam
output, adding several megawatts to power and several dozen kilometres
to effective range. The turret servos have been completely replaced with
a computer-controlled mag-lev system to improve accuracy.

The result is that our new Base Defence Laser Turret is capable of
tracking targets at any conceivable speed within Earth's atmosphere. It
can lock on to targets almost instantly, and is powerful enough even at
long range to damage UFO armour after only a few seconds of fire.
Accuracy is good; the laser suffers much less from alien EW (Electronic
Warfare) activity than missiles and can even predict basic evasive
manoeuvres.

Of course, as with any laser, range remains a problem. Atmospheric
blooming limits effective range to only a few hundred kilometres.
Weather effects and cloud cover can provide even more serious challenges
and, in some conditions, could slash effective range by more than 50%.
Lastly, the laser can only fire continuously for about 120 seconds
before overheating comes into play, and it requires up to 60 seconds to
cool down and recharge capacitors before it's ready to fire again.

Despite these limitations, the Base Defence Laser Turret should provide
an effective deterrent for most UFOs straying near our bases, and can
provide assistance in shooting down alien craft at short range. It's
going to be a good facility to have when one of our bases is in a pinch.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Continuous Wave Laser Operation`](Research/Continuous_Wave_Laser_Operation "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables construction -- Base-Defence Laser Turret`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")