How should the model of the [Flachette
Shells](Equipment/Ammunition/Flechette_Shells "wikilink") model *look*
(Single shells or magazine - and in the latter case what shape?) if it
can be used in the Riot Shotgun *and* the Micro Shotgun? And in
contrast: how should the [Saboted
Slugs](Equipment/Ammunition/Saboted_Slugs "wikilink") look so it is
believable that they can't be used in the micro shotgun? The only
differenct in the shape of the shells seems to be the length, am i
right? Right now we have two types of models: sinlge shells and the
magazine for the micro shotgun (which then should fit into the riot as
well? --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 10:29, 13 December 2006 (CET)


Ideally, we would display the magazine, and a single coloured shell in
front of it. Possibly we could stretch the magazine and shells for the
saboted slugs to make them longer?

<!-- -->


Also, speaking of the new riot shotgun (shotgun2), who chopped the
barrel off and turned it (the barrel) into a magazine? And can you
please put it back on? --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 14:05, 13
December 2006 (CET)

I don't know of any changes to the shotgun2 model, I'll have a look at
it. Does this mean that the riot shotgun should use the same magazine as
the micro shotgun? If not we would need a seperate pedia-entry for each
flechette-mag or not? --[141.76.45.35](User:141.76.45.35 "wikilink")
14:22, 13 December 2006 (CET)

After investigating this a bit i believe the shotgun2 model hasn't been
changed at all (i.e there was never a 'thin' barrel), and there was no
original magazine, so s/b just added a dummy-magazine.
--[141.76.45.35](User:141.76.45.35 "wikilink") 14:31, 13 December 2006
(CET)


Then you would be wrong. I refer you to the original model's render:
<http://www.flickr.com/photos/kaeau/267043061/in/photostream/>

<!-- -->


*Somebody* took off the barrel and entered it into the game as a
magazine. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 15:11, 13 December 2006
(CET)

Ok, the first 3d model _I_ saw anywhere was this one:
[1](http://ufo.myexp.de/temp/shotgun_compare.jpg) (it's an image i made
for mattn so he can use it in irc as basis for discussion) and I don't
have the original model anywhere .. gotta ask mattn if he has it. Or it
might be in the svn-history somewhere.
--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 15:30, 13 December 2006 (CET)

My plan would be to use the magazine model from the micro shotgun
(placing a single shell next to it) and use it for the two (currently)
existing shell-types. The onyl problem i see is that the magazines would
then look exactly the same and people would think you can use the
saboted slugs in the micro shotgun as well on first glance :-/ What do
you think? --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 14:36, 13 December 2006
(CET)


Your plan is almost exactly like mine. Like I said, we could also use
the micro shotgun magazine for the saboted slugs, if we stretch the
magazine and shell models a bit lengthwise. People wouldn't be confused
if the saboted slugs were longer than the flechette shells, and not
listed as an available ammunition for the micro shotgun, and all
documentation about it confirmed that it can't be used in the micro
shotgun. --[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 15:11, 13 December 2006
(CET)

Ok, that sounds good to me. --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 15:30,
13 December 2006 (CET)