# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Scout

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. We're ready to start studying and dismantling
the craft whenever you say, but we will need some lab time and funding
to make a proper assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Scout

This small UFO is the first type we've observed visually and on radar.
Although they don't seem to take part in actual raids, they're no less a
threat; so far they've paved the way for every instance of alien
activity on Earth.

We have dubbed this class of UFO the 'Scout', as that seems to be its
purpose here on Earth. It makes sense. Every modern military force needs
intelligence more than anything.

Here are the major technical details:

-- The craft has only a small fuel tank and few provisions for a crew.
It seems designed for little more than coming down from orbit, flying
around a bit, and then returning.

-- We've found no evidence of landing gear or hover ability in this
craft, implying that it isn't meant to land. If it loses both engines,
it goes down and won't come back up.

-- We have determined the craft to be unarmed, but it's equipped with
what appears to be a large suite of sensors contained in the four
protrusions around the cockpit. Curiously, it seems to mount no
communications equipment that we can identify, which would defeat the
purpose of a scout. Your guess is as good as ours, sir.

Beyond that the craft has no particular distinguishing characteristics.

As I said, this UFO type is used primarily as a reconnaissance unit and
vanguard to scout the way for heavier craft. Though unarmed, we should
shoot these things down whenever we're not otherwise engaged, because
anything the aliens are up to is bound to be bad for us.

--Cdr. Navarre

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Scout UFO`
` `[`UFO Theory`](Research/UFO_Theory "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[300px](image:Ufo_scout.jpg "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")