# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** UFO -- Scout

Commander, we've recovered a new UFO type which is now waiting in our
hangar for disassembly. We're ready to start studying and dismantling
the craft whenever you say, but we will need some lab time and funding
to make a proper assessment of its function and capabilities.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: UFO -- Scout

Commander, my team and I have finished our analysis of the small UFO we
captured. It's a real miracle of engineering, and we're all looking
forward to getting a chance to sink our own hooks into all this lovely
technology.

The craft's strange construction has raised a lot of questions for us to
answer. Much of the design seems to make little sense when viewed from
the ground. However, now that we've managed to look 'under the hood' and
test the alien hull materials under laboratory conditions, we have
gained a far clearer picture of UFO capabilities. I've made a list of
our most important discoveries.

\- The alien propulsion system is a type of rocket engine unlike any
ever built on Earth. It uses direct matter-antimatter annihilation to
generate thrust by injecting protons and antiprotons into the reaction
chamber, and then channeling this explosive force out the back of the
engine. This gives a UFO extreme power and needs no air or other gases
to fuel the reaction, allowing it to burn in hard vacuum. There is a
highly-advanced cooling system continuously pumping liquid nitrogen
through the engine housing in order to keep it cool and reduce the
infrared signature. Engine heat is also used to supply the craft's
electricity.

\- We've found no evidence of landing gear or hover ability in this
craft, implying that it isn't meant to land. If it loses both engines,
it goes down.

\- The fuel tank is very, very small, measured in fractions of a gramme,
but even so I nearly had a heart attack when I found out what was in
there. The maximum load -- two tenths of a gramme -- could create a
blast yield of more than 8 kilotons. By comparison the bomb at Hiroshima
was 13 kilotons. Naturally the tank is armoured and buried as deep as
possible within the fuselage, and there are mechanical systems present
to jettison the tank in an emergency, but they aren't perfect. A direct
hit on the tank or the containment system could still cause an
explosion. Much of the blast would be contained by the UFO's tough
structure, but any explosion represents an extreme hazard to our
interceptors. The only saving grace is that antimatter explosions create
little to no radioactive fallout.

\- The craft is extremely hard to see with our detection equipment. This
is largely due to the hull materials which very effectively absorb all
kinds of radiation. We've had the most luck with infrared and gamma ray
detection, as the antimatter-based engines produce quite a lot of both.

\- The slim design (generating poor lift and being difficult to handle
in air) is partly due to the heavy weight of the hull materials. Every
gramme of excess matter has been stripped, and the craft moves fast
enough to need very little wing surface. The material itself is quite
astonishing, part metal and part plastic polymer. It functions as a
memory alloy, 'remembering' at least two assigned shapes, shrinking into
a more compact form when cold but automatically stretching out and
assuming a more comfortable flying shape once it heats up. It's far
stronger and tougher than anything we've ever known. More research is
definitely required.

\- We have determined the craft to be unarmed, but it's equipped with
what appears to be a large suite of sensors contained in the four
protrusions around the cockpit. Curiously, it seems to mount no
communications equipment whatsoever, but that would defeat its apparent
role as a scout. Your guess is as good as ours, sir.

We have dubbed this class of UFO the 'Scout', as that seems to be its
purpose here on Earth. It is used primarily as a reconnaissance unit and
vanguard to scout the way for heavier craft. Though unarmed, we should
shoot these craft down if we are not otherwise engaged, because anything
the aliens are up to is bound to be bad for us.

--Cdr. Navarre

Estimated Scout statistics:

*Size:* Small (6m x 14m x 3m)

*Cruising speed:* +/- 1,600 km/h

*Top speed:* +/- 3,000km/h

*Crew capacity:* 3 max.

*Weapon capacity:* None

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Scout UFO`

*`Opens:`*
` `[`Alien Materials`](Research/Alien_Materials "wikilink")
` `[`UFO -- Fighter`](Fighter "wikilink")
` `[`UFO -- Harvester`](Harvester "wikilink")
` Improved UFO Detection`

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[300px](image:Ufo_scout.jpg "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Aircraft](Category:Aircraft "wikilink")