# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Blaster

Commander, we've recovered an alien plasma blaster from the field. This
is an extremely powerful new plasma weapon that warrants immediate
research. Preliminary testing confirms that blaster shots tear right
through our Combat Armour and have a far longer range than the other
plasma weapons we've recovered.

Please authorise this research program at your earliest convenience.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Blaster

Commander, here's my report on our alien plasma blaster research.

This is by far the heaviest member we've observed out of the plasma
weapon family, and it seems unlikely that they will get any larger. The
blaster requires at least two people and a heavy-duty cart to get it in
and out of secure storage. It's barely man-portable, requiring a troop
with great strength to carry it into battle. It is so large that, if it
were a vehicle-mounted piece, it wouldn't even fit on most of our UGVs.
The magazines weigh nearly a kilogramme apiece and the plasma generated
is hot enough to melt through conventional armoured vehicles.

One of the notable improvements over the plasma rifle is the blaster's
increased range, made possible by thicker containment plastic and higher
bolt speeds. Ballistic testing has confirmed that blaster shots can
reach distances of up to 400m before dispersing. The accuracy may be
poor, but the blaster also has a far higher rate of fire. A heavy-duty
plasma chamber and upgraded plastic spinnerets can produce up to 250
rounds per minute. Unfortunately for us, despite the containment
plastic's increased thickness, the bolts will still burst and deploy
their plasma properly even at extreme close range. This makes the
blaster highly dangerous at all ranges at which PHALANX troops may
encounter it. We recommend that any enemies found carrying one be
neutralised ASAP, as they are an extreme threat to everyone and
everything in the line of fire.

The aliens seem to use the blaster mostly in the role of heavy machine
gun and anti-vehicle weapon. Another interesting fact is that their use
is almost completely exclusive to the Ortnok species. Most Tamans --
like most humans -- would have extreme difficulty trying to lift and aim
one and require mechanical assistance to do so. Cybernetic enhancements
and/or the development of powered armour would certainly rectify many of
the blaster's inherent weaknesses from a human point of view.

Lastly, we've mapped out the weapon's full control scheme for you, which
is documented in the attached field manual. Our troops should now be
able to train with and use the plasma blaster in combat as any other
weapon, provided they're able to lift it.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [explosive](Skills/explosive "wikilink")
- [heavy](Skills/heavy "wikilink")

## Links

- [Grenade
  Launcher](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Grenade_Launcher "wikilink")
- [Bolter Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Bolter_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Heavy Laser](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Heavy_Laser "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Extremely high damage.

2\) Long range.

3\) Large magazines.

4\) Large bursts.

*Con:*

1\) Long reload time.

2\) Slow-firing.

3\) Very high recoil.

4\) Mediocre accuracy.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma blaster`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Plasma Blaster`
` Enables production -- Plasma Blaster Charger`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")