## Blueprints -- Living Quarters

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 22 January 1958

By: Maj. Marcel LeClerc, Base Commander, PHALANX, Pacific Operations
Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Quarters.png "Quarters.png")The Living Quarters facility is the
standard habitation unit for PHALANX personnel. It provides living space
and sanitation for up to 20 people and several necessary ancillary
personnel.

The facility's lower floor contains a soldiers' barracks, communal
showers, bathrooms, and a common area where troops can spend their
off-duty time. Each soldier receives 1 bunk and 1 locker partition to
store their personel effects such as civilian clothes. It is also
intended for storage of uniforms and other on-duty equipment.

The upper floor contains officers' quarters, generally used for any
ranking/important personnel. Each private quarters has its own bed,
desk, storage space and sanitary unit, and the level as a whole sports
shared but separate shower cabins. This level is located above-ground
and receives natural sunlight.

In the case of an emergency, the Living Quarters has a special partition
designed to function as a disaster shelter where non-combat personnel
can take refuge until the all clear is given. The shelter provides
oxygen and supplies for up to 12 people for 1 week. The access hatch is
made of tungsten-reinforced titanium and will open for little short of a
nuclear blast.

The Living Quarters does not depend upon any other structures to
operate.

### Recommended Doctrine

The Living Quarters are an important part of evacuation procedures in
the event of a base attack. All non-combat personnel are to drop their
current tasks immediately and retreat to the nearest shelter or
strongpoint, be it the Command Centre, Living Quarters or other
appropriate facility. Seven minutes after the attack alarm sounds, all
disaster shelter doors will close -- regardless of how many personnel
are accounted for -- and afterwards they will refuse to open except from
the inside. Everyone who is not going to participate in the fight should
be inside by that time.

The facility is almost worthless from a tactical standpoint, and will
most likely be ignored by any extraterrestrials. It is thoroughly
unimportant during an attack, as well as cheap to build and easy to
repair. There is very little a hostile force could do short of total
destruction that can really inconvenience a Living Quarters.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")