First, there are the \*.map files. They are generated by uforadiant and
contain a technical description of the contents of a maptile. The \*.map
files need to be compiled by ufo2 into a binary form, the \*.bsp files.

At map load time these bsp files are read into a class named
**MapTile**. A map that consists of just one tile is called 'static
map', while those that are composed of several tiles are called 'RMA',
which spells 'random map assembly'. For both the tiles are stored in a
struct named **'mapTiles_t**'.

Second, there is the maps.ufo script. It contains mapdef entries for
each map that are later read into the **struct mapDef_t**. A mapdef
describes in which situations or missions the map would be suitable in
terms of climate, involved aircrafts, population and so on.

For RMAs, we also need blueprints how we have to put the tiles together.
They are called **'assembly**' and are found in the .ump files, along
with technical descriptions of the tiles.

For actually putting an RMA together, the RMA process uses a **class
MapInfo** to keep track of the status of that process. This class is
almost exclusively used inside sv_rma.cpp.

Third, we have **mapData_t**. Its most important contents is the routing
table. **Class Routing** describes all the places where an actor could
walk on the given map, while **pathing** holds the TUs needed to go
there from the current starting point eg. the actor's position.

**pathing_t** resides in clientBattleScape_t, **mapData_t** and
**mapTiles_t** are in serverInstanceGame_t, **mapDef_t** in csi_t.

Confused ? That was just the overview.

[Category:Mapping](Category:Mapping "wikilink")
[Category:Coding](Category:Coding "wikilink")
[Category:Contribute](Category:Contribute "wikilink")