I suggest the upper left corner to adjust - to switch the base
separately. If the base was attacked or do we equip the crew, who
arrived at the mission before its launch
[sample](http://img-fotki.yandex.ru/get/4212/sotnikov123.0/0_2a3b9_e1d959e8_XL.jpg).


Yes for base attack we can equip soldiers before. But it is planed to
equip any soldiers any time we want (it is not for now).
[Bayo](User:Bayo "wikilink") 20:47, 23 May 2010 (UTC)


I was thinking about the interface equipment, the [mockup by
"BTAxis"](http://ufoai.ninex.info/wiki/index.php/Proposals/New_UI) - the
task more complicated than might appear at first glance. So far it seems
to me that it should be divided into parts: one, the most simple - it is
skins, graphics solutions. Another - more difficult - to build a scheme
of screens, which are independent from each other - it battlescape and
geoscape, menu and all submenus into base, even tooltips - it is also a
kind of screen is very small, which emerges under certain conditions,
and must obey its rules. And we must start to identify the conditions
for transition from screen to screen, some to be the common parts (eg
the amount of money just geoscape and menus into base). Also from this
screen "equipment" must be the switch between bases, the same as the
switch into menu "research" or "buy/sell" that are not yet implemented.
Even I think that the "equip soldiers" should be one of the items inside
the base - one must not only equip the crews, but a simple soldier, who
can sit in their barracks. Actually I've written a lot of words - now
try to sketch out a menu system for clarity on the
picture.--[Sotnikov123](User:Sotnikov123 "wikilink") 22:43, 23 May 2010
(UTC)