## Official Description

JetPack is the next step in evolution of
[Equipment/Proposed/JumpPack](Equipment/Proposed/JumpPack "wikilink") .
While JumpPack only ejected the person into air and pushed him slightly
forward, JetPack uses combustion engine to enable prolonged hovering in
the air. Like its ancestor it requires the whole space of back pack and
while hovering soldier has to fully concentrate on balancing and
utilizing his both hands to maneuver. This might seem easy to
accomplish, but our test pilots reported that it's not! A certain level
of intelligence [Skills/mind](Skills/mind "wikilink"),
[Skills/speed](Skills/speed "wikilink") and
[Skills/accuracy](Skills/accuracy "wikilink") is required before one can
use JetPack without harm. On the other hand it will provide several
minutes of hovering making it possible to travel from roof to roof, fly
over buildings or fire or any other obstacle. It's fuel capacity can
provide up to 3 turns flying, but only with 2/3 of TU because of it's
difficult handling. It is also equipped with sensor that disallows its
usage in closed rooms. Keep in mind that if the fuel is depleted in the
air, person will fall down like a piece of rock causing him injuries or
even lead to instant death! After it is no longer needed it can be
easily left on the ground and unit will regain his full movement
abilities.

**Battle Implications**

JetPack is very useful for quick vertical movement and for passing
obstacles and buildings. Unit equipped with JetPack can reach his
desired destination in much shorter time as would be required to take
the stairs or to go around. It is also useful when you want to use it
for spotting enemies from above.