## Storyline Missions

This article lists all special missions that will occur in the final
campaign, along with the conditions for their occurrence as well as any
special effects they will have once completed by the player. Note that
this list should be considered work-in-progress. New entries might be
added at a later time, or existing entries might be altered or removed.

In general, storyline missions all have the following properties.

- Storyline missions can not be automatically resolved.
- The player must complete the mission to complete the game. Failure to
  win a storyline mission either results in the loss of the game or a
  return to the status quo. In the second case, the player may attempt
  the same mission again at a later time.
- Unless specified otherwise, storyline missions do not expire.

## UFO Carrier mission

### Conditions for appearance

The UFO Carrier mission shows up after the player has completed
researching the tech tree up to Orbital UFO Activity. From the moment of
the research completion, there should ideally be a cutscene in which the
Carrier is shot down and falls to the surface of Earth. Then the mission
shows up on the geoscape in a fixed location.

### Effects

When the UFO Carrier mission is won, the player can research the UFO
Carrier technology. On completion of this technology, the player
receives 1 unit of Alien FTL Drive in one of his [Off-base UFO
Yards](Proposals/Off-base_UFO_Yards "wikilink"). This opens up research
for this item, as per the usual research system.
When the UFO Carrier mission is lost, the player is returned to the
geoscape and may attempt the mission again at a later time.

## Taman homeworld mission

### Conditions for appearance

The Taman homeworld mission requires the player to have researched a
certain technology (currently not yet part of the design docs). The
player must also have a FTL-capable craft available. This mission does
not appear on the geoscape. An alternative means of launching it must be
devised.

### Effects

On successful completion of the mission, a new research entry is made
available.
On failure, the player is returned to the geoscape and may attempt the
mission again at a later time. The FTL capable craft is returned to its
base.

## Alien mothership mission

### Conditions for appearance

The alien mothership mission requires the player to have researched a
certain technology (currently not yet part of the design docs). The
player must also have a FTL-capable craft available. This mission does
not appear on the geoscape. An alternative means of launching it must be
devised.

### Effects

Upon successful completion of this mission, the player has won the game.
Upon failure, the game is over. This mission may not be attempted more
than once.

## FTL Drive defence mission

### Conditions for appearance

This mission is essentially a normal Off-base UFO Yard or base assault
mission spawned by the campaign framework. However, if the UFO Yard or
base the aliens are attacking happens to be the current location of the
captured FTL drive, a different message is presented to the player
(stating the FTL drive is in danger of being lost).

### Effects

If the mission is won, the game resumes as normal. If the mission is
lost, the game is over.

Also see
[Talk:Research/Orbital_UFO_Activity](Talk:Research/Orbital_UFO_Activity "wikilink")

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")