## Guideline (discussion)

Thank you so much for the guideline and the overall restoring of peace
and order. :) Now I will remove the unrelevant portions of my past
ramblings. --[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 18:27, 12 June 2006
(CEST)

## UFOAI: Synopsis (altugi)

\> We are in the year 2084.

Bandobras: Isn't that a bit too far ahead? Many of the weapons currently
in game are contemporary and others can be explained as influence of the
alien tech or wild prototypes. On the other hand 2084 may be hard to
imagine and immerse onself in...

\> Following a UN security report in 2027 titled "Terror from Outer
Space"

--- That doesn't sound like a title your typical UN bureaucrat would
come up with...

--- Yeah. We need a real bureaucrat to do this one right. Perhaps could
begin with "Assessment of qualitative..." (sorry, no native speaker
here:). Or we could search the real UN pages...

BloodMagus: Prehaps something more like 'Assessment of Protocols and
Defences against a Hostile Extraterrestrial Force'

Bandobras: Nice. Probably much more readable than actuall UN titles are,
but does not sound naive, either...

--- Since the chatter section was removed, I repeat the assertion that
2084 is waaaay too far ahead for verisimilitude. In general the idea of
an worldwide-known organisation funded by the UN isn't very compelling,
either - a secret consortium a la the original X-Com seems better. I'm
afraid I must give this storyline a thumbs-down.

Bandobras: I'm glad you agree with me on the time setting. The deletion
of our comments was a misunderstanding (on our part, mostly:). About
thumbs: I would rather use them to write a better one, if I could. ;) I
guess a non-secret organization could be nice, for a change, if done
right. No more problems with lame explanations how burning down a city
can be overlooked by the public opinion. On the other hand, some
explanation has to be found for e.g. why the organization is relatively
poor (at the beginning), why only few soldiers, no army cooperation,
etc. I see some of this is already tackled in the story. OTOH, perhaps
the gameplay will have for instance army cooperation (e.g., for hunting
the last remaining alien on the battlefield --- a button "call the army"
that concludes the battle automatically, with percent of additional
civilian casualties and destroyed alien artifacts based on the number of
remaining aliens).

Altugi: On thumbs down... The official version supports the "world-wide
known org under the UN" idea. Personally I prefer to have secret orgs
too, but I wanted to stick a bit to the official version while I wrote
this. Also 2084 is the date in the official version. I would have
preferred to keep it somewhere around 2040. For the UN report: I was
looking for a title that tells in simple words what it is about, so that
the player immediately gets it. You could have one sounding like a UN
report title... but I'm not sure if that is really the better option.
Personally I would definately stick to a X-Com Apocalypse setting and
environment. But the engine doesn't support such an option. And as we
have a Storyline/Final section, all this storyline talk here is just
worthless musing anyway. It would help the project more if you discuss
(not edit) the article at [Storyline/Final](Storyline/Final "wikilink").

So your thumbs are down? That's ok, my head is up :-))

Btw, when I made this entry first, I thought it's ok to write down our
ideas. I didn't realize that this article was meant as a placeholder for
the original idea. So I want to say to the admins: I wouldn't mind if
you erase this entry. If it was meant as a place for the official
storyline, then it should be so.

Bandobras: So we messed up. :) How funny. ;D I would not like all this
wiped up, since there are interesting ideas in your story and, I think,
relevant criticism on the talk page. I'm glad this is now sorted out
with the Guidlines and I guess the discussion can now move to the forum.
Thanks! --[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 18:30, 12 June 2006
(CEST)

BTAxis: Some justification for the current storyline here. 2084 isn't
THAT far into the future. It's only 80 years. Since WWII, weapons
haven't really evolved that much, and I doubt firearms will change much
in the next 100 years. I also doubt the political environment will
change nearly as fast in 80 years as the storyline would suggest, so in
that respect it's actually not set nearly far enough into the future.
But this is fiction, and some liberties must be taken. As for a secret
organization, I strongly oppose the ideas in that direction put forward
so far, because it's simply not realistic, given the nature of the open
warfare that lies at the basis of this game. It's good for Jagged
Alliance, not X-COM.

Fair enough about 2084. If you say that things are similar to ours, let
it be. About open warfare --- perhaps open, but not on a very large
scale, or the missions will get unimportant too early (in the late game
I agree to using "auto combat" for missions, but not earlier).
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 02:36, 14 July 2006 (CEST)

I added the suggestions about Africa and Russia to the /Final section.
--[BTAxis](User:BTAxis "wikilink") 13:26, 27 July 2006 (CEST)

--I like the idea of everyone being fired recently because it allows
infinite twists about tracking down those who had left, or having them
reappear in later levels (dead or alive, on either side)... i.e., good
guys who would have come back but didn't know about the attack, bad guys
who were abusing the system and waiting for retirement, bad guys who
want the attack to succeed just to stick it to the man or because they
believe its the only way the funding will really get solved, etc. I'm a
school teacher, and there are plenty of teachers who want the schools to
fail in the hopes they'll get more funding. And I LOVE the idea of the
whole thing being a result of bureaucracy, because here in the US we
catch a terrorist a week trying to blow up an orphanage, and 50% of
congress (and 90% of the UN) still votes that the best way to handle it
is moral equivalency and denial.
--[66.97.136.23](User:66.97.136.23 "wikilink") 15:08, 29 August 2006
(CEST)

I'd like to suggested changes to the Intro..as seen on the article page.
I think this gives a better overview of the Phalanx, it also infuses
elements of the orginal sotry arch by altugi and the final story arch.
It flows better overall, the abrupt transiotion from struggling world to
alien attack is shocking transition and good intent, but gets somewhat
akward later when Phalanx is mentioned (almost as a after thought)
toward the end, and the reader is left wondering wait...what?

The edit introduces a couple of things I like. It ties to the world we
know (project Blue Book and the dates of operation are accurate),
gradually ties in our perception of aliens, and the world leaders have
kept us in the dark. It also provides context and history to the team
your playing, rather than a seeming afterthought. It introduces the
“Calder Valley Incident” which you can explore later in the research
tree, what exactly happened. This gives the people that ignore the intro
a reason to go back and read it and provides a fun little tie in to the
game moment for the players that pay attention. :)

I'd also like to know who I can talk to about contributing, and
assessing where best my abilities could be used.

Back ground: Published writer (journalist and tech writer though... not
so much creative)

Project manager (Global project lead for major hardware manuf.)

Beta Tester (Commandos, Myth)

Map design (ok this on is a stretch but I created some great maps for
Jagged Alliance Series using their map editing tools, also a channel
moderator for base building in City of Heroes).

I've been able to eek some great and original ideas out of those tools
with pre made sets.

Also served in the Air Force so I generally know how to create authentic
sounding documents, miltary installation maps, termonology, ect. -davidf

--[ender101](User:ender101 "wikilink") 18:25, 14 June 2007 (CEST)

## Where search?

Hello, you have on your \[b\]search\[/b\]? A very uncomfortable all the
time to search for information manually.

## Constructive Critique?

` If I can inject an "outsider's" view of things, I actually love your storyline but there are a few things I thought I'd bring up;`

1.  1 Why would the aliens tip thier hand and launch a full-scale
    invasion before they are truly ready to "win"? Thier goal is pretty
    obviously to infect humanity with the XVI virus/bug/thing so why the
    overt attack that only acted to spur us into action? It would've
    been far more likely that they'd capture a few hundred captives on a
    global scale over time so as not to arouse suspicion.

<!-- -->

1.  2 Is it necissary for PHALANX to have died off and then resurrected?
    More of a suggestion really, why not have PHALANX operating
    continually from 1955 until "present"? The game could start with
    PHALANX noticing increasingly suspicious UFO activity and begin it
    investigation from that point (discovering the danger of XVI-H along
    the way). It would be an interesting dichotomy between this Human
    utopian paradise and a shadowy war being fought against an unseen
    threat.