Writers/Credits:

- hoehrer
- ProtoArmor
- Virtul
- Tom "thomash833152" Hudson
- wikiworms

Some of the sources:

- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plasma_%28physics%29>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ion_thruster>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tachyon>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tactical_High_Energy_Laser>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chemical_laser>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nanotechnology>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exotic_matter>
- <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UGV>

## Expounding on the tech tree

A problem I've noticed with this tech tree is how short it is. We have
such a nice tech tree system that allows you to "reverse engineer" that
which you recover, but we're barely using it. I would like to propose
expanding this tech tree.

Examples:

The problem with making a real plasma weapon doesn't involve not
understanding "Advanced Plasma Control". Plasma is actually quite simple
to understand and control -- it obeys Lorentz force quite nicely. We
have two primary things holding us back in making plasma weapons: the
strength of the axial magnetic field we can create and the amount of
power we can get from a small power source. Well, that's two source
techs:

Supermagnets: These Antareans have some impressive, and by impressive I
mean 'previously unfathomable' magnets in use. A household magnet is
around 100 gauss, and we've worked with magnets over 150,000 gauss, but
they're somehow pulling off small Halbach Arrays that are over 50
trillon gauss -- almost as strong as your average neutron star. If we
could figure this one out, it would have profound implications in our
ability to control and utilize plasma.

Isomer Emission Power: We have long known the potential for great
amounts of power potential to be stored in small amounts of matter via
nuclear isomers, particularly hafnium 178m2. The problem was always
getting it out -- and even if you could, it's in gamma rays, so you need
a way to harness them. The lack of military demand in recent years
sidelined much of our research onto the topic. Figuring this one out
will have great implications for providing great amounts of power to
small devices.

So, lets say that you find a plasma atomizer. Great, you can research
"plasma atomizer" and be able to produce it. However, you don't know how
to build a plasma rifle, because you haven't found one and don't
understand what's going on If you found one, you could research it right
away -- but, as stated, you haven't, so you can't.

However, you also can research the parent techs of the plasma atomizer
-- Supermagnets and Isomer Emission Power.

So, lets say that you research Supermagnets. Well, that's still not
enough to research plasma rifles, but it uncovers new technologies. With
such powerful magnet arrays, you can research the Phoenix, since magnets
that strong could provide propulsion against Earth's magnetic field or
through induced paramagnetism. Perhaps you can research advanced radar,
or other such inventions as well. The parent tech provides immediate new
things that you can branch off to.

Lets say that you then research Isomer Emission Power. Now you get the
things that you could build using isomer emission power sources -- lets
say, advanced armor requires energy, so if you have nanotech, you can
now research the advanced armor. Perhaps the bolter rifle is a coilgun
and needs a major energy source, so it's a requirement. Etc. But now you
have both supermagnets, isomer emisison power, \*and\* understand the
plasma atomizer. Well, now you can scale it up -- you can research a
plasma rifle without ever finding one!

The general layout would be that if you're willing to research a lot,
you can come up with every weapon in a "category" on research, but the
big leaps and bounds require a representative piece of alien technology.
So, if you get a piece of plasma weaponry, you can eventually learn to
make all of the plasma gun-type weapons without capturing one, but if
you want a tachyon weapon, you better capture at least one type.

Does this sort of thing sound like a reasonable thing to you? We have it
structured so that we can "reverse-engineer" technologies down the
chain. Why not take advantage of it? :)

Proposed research topics:

Tech: Advanced Lasers

Desc: The usual

Uses: Laser pistol, and indirectly the other lasers, plus any vehicles
that need lasers.

Tech: Isomer Emission Power

Desc: See above

Uses: All alien handheld and thrown weapons (except kerrblade), bolter
rifle, advanced armor, etc.

Tech: Supermagnets

Desc: See above

Uses: All alien handheld and thrown weapons (except kerrblade), phoenix,
advanced radar, etc.

Tech: Plasma Explosives

Desc: In general, plasma dissipates relatively quickly in all
directions, making it ineffective as an explosive. However, the plasma
from these alien explosives seems to be confined to bands, based on the
same vortex principles that we see in focus fusion reactors. As a
consequence, it remains devastating as it spreads outwards. We wish to
learn the confinement scheme that they're using to cause such behavior.

Uses: All plasma-explosive weapons; also one enabling tech for plasma
supermagnets

Tech: Tachyon Device

Desc: We don't even know exactly where these particles are coming from,
but their very presence is proof of the Antarean control of particles
that, while unable to convey information faster than the speed of light,
form a closed temporal loop that can transfer energy devastatingly well.
At this point, simply being able to recreate the effect would be an
amazing feat that would open up the door to a whole new branch of
weaponry, armor, other technologies.

Uses: All alien tachyon weaponry.

Tech: Tachyon Physics

Desc: The tachyons seem to be generated from imploding boson
condensates; we know that much. However, we have yet to determine how to
factor their behavior into our present models or determine any equations
of state for them. We hope that with an understanding of the physics
behind tachyon generation and control, we can fundamentally alter how we
approach defense and movement.

Uses: The techs behind advanced armor, shields, alcubierre drive, and
cloaking (i.e., an enabling tech)

Tech: Tachyon Explosives

Desc: The Antarians have managed to discover how to generate coherent,
high intensity beams of tachyons within a plasma explosive. At first
glance, it would almost appear as though they have the plasma performing
calculations and controlling its direction, all through reversals of
supermagnet-strength magnetic fields -- but that can't be the case,
could it?

Uses: All alien tachyon explosive weaponry

Tech: Nanotech Mass Production

Desc: While nanotechnology forms the core of much of our modern
technology, we feel that it may be possible to develop a generalized
system for rapid assembly of nearly any kind of stable nanostructures
using a combination of gas deposition and large-scale laser cooling. If
this pans out, materials science will take off.

Uses: The root tech for all armors, and several other techs (i.e., an
enabling tech)

Tech: Degenerate Composites

Desc: In the quest to develop better armors, an interesting concept was
uncovered. If we kept bosons densely packed within a supermagnet's
field, we could essentially create a thin plane of degenerate matter.
The Pauli Exclusion Principle would cause it to be virtually
incompressible and require that any new particles trying to move through
it fit into precise locations.

Uses: Provides the best armor and also enables shield research. Of
course, we could add another level of armor after that if we so wanted,
one that provides better shielding against tachyons. Since our
"tachyons" are how we're explaining the loss of matter in Bose-Einstein
condensate explosions (a real-world unknown in physics), we could create
subcritical condensates for which the addition of any energy would
trigger the implosion, and in our invented tachyon physics, scatter the
energy as non-coherent tachyons in the same direction that the particles
arrived from. Since a tachyon travelling back through time is the same
as its antiparticle moving forward through time, it would be subject to
this.

Tech: UFO Design Principles

Desc: Having captured a UFO, if we wish to be able to produce their more
advanced designs without capturing them, we're going to have to
understand not only how to reproduce the parts, but how they work
together. The most challenging part will be understanding how to adjust
the flight control software to deal with different flight components.

Uses: Allows construction of other UFOs, although more advanced UFOs may
also require other techs, such as the Alcubierre Wave Generator

Tech: Alcubierre Wave Generator

Desc: The Alcubierre Drive -- commonly known as the warp drive, it is
the panacea of space exploration. To be able to create one requires a
complete theory of quantum gravity. Apparently the Antareans discovered
the existence of fundamentally bizarre negative-mass particles and a
method to create them, thus enabling an Alcubierre drive at the same
time as a fuelless diametric drive. Attractive as this concept is, we
must first determine how they generate particles with negative mass.

Uses: As both an Alcubierre (warp) drive and a Diametric (fuelless)
drive both require particles of a negative mass, you get two birds with
one stone: better engines and the ability to build more advanced alien
craft.

Tech: General Alien Anatomy

Desc: The Antareans, as well as the other species that they travel with,
have evolved down completely different evolutionary paths than our own,
all the way from their first self-sustaining hypercycle. While we can
roughly determine what their organs do from a dissection, understanding
how they function requires a more detailed study at the molecular level.

Uses: Can be learned from any alien autopsy. More advanced autopsies
require it, as well as does psionics. An enabling tech for any
biological technologies.

Tech: Alien Psionics

Desc: (Not sure -- are we going to have psionics in this game? It'll be
a trick to come up with a plausible scientific explanation, but I can
manage)

Uses: (Anything involving psionics)

Naturally, as this is my proposal, I'd be willing to write the
first-draft info files for everything described, plus implement the .ufo
files to hook in the changes.

`-- `[`129.255.93.180`](User:129.255.93.180 "wikilink")` 01:32, 11 August 2006 (CEST)`

Great! Be sure to mention this page at IRC and the forum. Also, first
drafts may well go onto the main page, as subpages of "Proposed". Also,
please, be aware this is most probably after-2.0 stuff, so people may
not have time even to look at this, currently. Even if you script and
code everything... There is just **so** much to fix...

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 03:17, 11 August 2006 (CEST)


No doubt about that. :) -- [Rei](User:Rei "wikilink") 19:19, 11 August
2006 (CEST)

## Early research

At the start of the game, one available research area could be to
analyse alien behaviour using the available data from the first attacks.
It could be a prerequisite for later research or simply make make some
kind of equipment available for purchase or production. This could be
something like the grenade launcher or ammunition better suited for
hunting aliens, something already existing but previously overlooked. It
would also be a way to introduce more background information and
atmosphere into the game. --[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 02:05, 20
October 2006 (CEST)


That's a great idea, which is why I was already working on it. ;)

--[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 08:05, 20 October 2006 (CEST)

<!-- -->



I'm not worthy... {repeat n times}

However if all-knowing and in all ways excellent guru Winter should wish
for some assistance

in this task I would be happy to provide. In the meantime I will direct
my unworthy efforts

to tasks more fitting to my station. ;) Hmm, the technology descriptions
seem to need a bit of help

anyone working on those?

--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 20:39, 20 October 2006 (CEST)

If you want more to research, you could research more Earth weapons,
rather than sticking to the alien arsenal. The humans are quite lucky
because the alien weapons are so ergonomic and confortable. Do all
aliens have 5 fingers with an opposing thumb? And besides, the PHALANX
could try researching and improving/adapting alien weapons to Earth
weapons. I'm proposing that some alien weapons can't be used by human
soldiers (while others can be used), so the player has to research and
build Earth variants (maybe with researchable improvements) of the
plasma/tachyon guns. Some less powerful but more accurate, or less power
and longer range, etc. And why not... make some tech, like tachyon,
impossible to research..(the research won't get to anything fruitfull)
E.g the tachyon physics is to advanced for our current level of
technology, so human scientists have to find a way of protection against
tachyon.. you won't have a tachyon weapon, but can research some tachyon
shield/armor/countermeasure (I'm proposing this if Winter doesn't have
anything already set in the story concerning this..) It could be more
interesting if there will be more technologies, the humans developing
their own powerful weapons, until the end of the game, based on several
techs got from the aliens. Humans were always good at weapons and
destroying each other.. It's in their nature, to quote the Terminator ;)
--[Sirg](User:Sirg "wikilink") 11:13, 21 October 2006 (CEST)

It is reasonable that earth forces would have to spend quite some time
fighting the aliens with mostly earth technology, even if the whole
research community was available to draw upon. I like the idea that some
tech can be used but not understood and some can't be either used or
understood. All that research would be able to give you on these techs
would be general capabilities from observations of how the aliens used
them and the little which could be tested in the lab. Weapons tech that
can be used might have to be modified to fit or fire, so you wouldn't
just be able to pick up a new weapon on the battlefield. Imagine a
plasma knife for an alien might be the size of a two-handed longsword
for a human soldier, or the other way around. Something that would make
sense would be to connect research on aliens to what happens on the
battlefield (and the information you get before embarking or maybe a
short briefing before entering battle). One way to connect these could
be through the "critical hit" discussed in the forum. You are much more
likely to get a good hit if you know someones vital spots and the
weaknesses of their armor. Here it is possible to use a recurring
research topic, for example that you can research the first when you
have brought back the first corpse, the second when you have brought
back ten corpses and so on. Each will give you more information and
higher hit/damage/kill probabilities. However to really make use of
these connections, the skills would have to be extended.

--[Grumpy](User:Grumpy "wikilink") 21:51, 23 October 2006 (CEST)

## I don't find "Alien Origins" in this page!!!

What's category that should contain it?
--[Pmanop](User:Pmanop "wikilink") 06:47, 13 July 2010 (UTC)