what about the alien armor? i think it would be interesting after
collection some to research it and to get information about it.... but
currently we don't have descriptions for those.


[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 09:15, 18 October 2006 (CEST)

afaik the shotgun msgids should be renamed to shotgun2 - the shotgun
texts are not shown in current ufopedia, because this weapon is
multiplayer only, don't it?


[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 18:54, 6 December 2006 (CET)

## Page readibility/usability

Hi, I have two suggestions:

1\) IMHO it would be better to have languages vertically rather than
horizontally - only a few people have their screens 50 inch wide so that
they can see everything at once, and scrolling from left to right and
back in addition to scrolling down is not very comfortable ...

2\) it would be nice to have the languages sorted alphabetically by
their code (with the exception of the "default" English being the first
one), so that it is easier to find where to look

--[Kavol](User:Kavol "wikilink") 12:59, 17 February 2007 (CET)

Well as good as this idea sounds we would need to change the script that
searches this page for the correct translation as well (see the
`update_po_from_wiki.sh` file in ). If s/b changes it to use the new
formatting as well I see no reason why we would need to stick with the
current one.

--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 14:37, 17 February 2007 (CET)

## For German translators

Ich hab im Artikel [Forschung/Außerirdischer
Atmungsapparat](Forschung/Außerirdischer_Atmungsapparat "wikilink") die
Zeile "VON: Dr. Connor, F&E: Abteilung Biologie & Eindämmung" in "VON:
Dr. Connor, F&E: Abteilung Biologie & Quarantäne" geändert, da
Eindämmung eine unglückliche Übersetzung für alien containment ist. Mir
gefällt Quarantäne in diesem Zusammenhang allerdings auch nicht viel
besser, so heißt aber immerhin die Einrichtung. Bevor ich das auch bei
allen Autopsien ändere: Irgendjemand ne bessere Idee? --[The
Dude](User:The_Dude "wikilink") 23:40, 8 March 2007 (CET)

## Mail headers

Are the mail headers used on UFOpedia entryes?
--[Oni](User:Oni "wikilink")

yes - mailclient and ufopedia --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 22:12, 8
April 2007 (CEST)

## Add the pt-BR column

Hey guys, I have just reviewed a large part of the pt_BR.po file in
trunk. I came to this page to see if I could translate some of the
content also, but guess what... there is no column for pt_BR
translation. I do not have that much free time to translate it all, but
I want to help, so please add a pt_BR column. Thanks, Danke und
Obrigado.

## For german translators

Wie wäre es mit "Haft" oder "Einschliessung"?

## es, es_ES

Can somebody tell me what is the difference, so that I am putting my
translations in the right place?

And just a question: How can I change the "po: open" notice to "po:
done" when I translated something?


When you have something like "en_GB", the lowercase code is the language
and the uppercase code is the country. For example "en_GB" is english
spoken in United Kingdom and "en_US" is english spoken in the United
States.

<!-- -->


"es_ES" is spanish spoken in Spain. So I have no idea why it's different
from "es". Maybe it will be merged someday? Maybe there is a reason for
this... I don't know.

<!-- -->


If you want to change the status of the translation, you can just edit
the table and modify the label.

--[Oni](User:Oni "wikilink") 19:17, 4 August 2007 (CEST)

## Add the da language column

I have already startet on some of the translations on the wiki. Thanks,
Joe (danish translation)

## Proof reading

Would it be possible to make a {{proof}} template (), to mark that a
page is translated (not open), but might still not be done either.

Edit: Since no one commented either way and this being a wiki, I have
created the template :)

sorry for not responding - the proof template is fine
--[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 09:24, 21 March 2008 (CET)

## Add bg_BG - Bulgarian content

Hi, all! I've translated the 86% of the .po file, but the remaining is
the UFOPaedia content and the Mails. So, please add a bg_BG section, so
I can start the translation.

Thanks!


I've done so for the aircraft msgids - you can easily update the other
pages, too --[Mattn](User:Mattn "wikilink") 21:35, 1 February 2009 (UTC)