I'd propose that apart of the 8 soldiers, the team also consists of 4
spare crew members, that can fill the ranks if any soldiers is
dead/unconsious. The spare crew members can be pilots (making crafts
faster, etc.), medics, workers, scientists. They each contribute some
help to the soldiers, as described on their pages. If such a crew member
goes into action and is killed, it's bonuses no longer apply to the
team. --[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 09:14, 12 September 2006
(CEST)


What about adding security building to base, which boost base defence by
AI controled soldiers or in this place workers/scientists etc. go for
weapons and act as militia. And of course, SB provides camera system to
all base (or in certain reach) to see aliens invaders (and aliens you
not, but can jam/destroy camera with certain techs).

<!-- -->



Perhaps we already have such building: Team Room. The cameras seem like
a nice idea to me (and quite easy to implement as dummy "soldiers" hang
on walls) but only if they are made not too powerful.
--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 23:39, 14 September 2006 (CEST)

## Base Structure

There has been some discussion about how to map the base out for a base
defence. One suggestion was that each facility would be a separate
mission, if the aliens won one battle the ajoining facility would come
under attack next. I think that would tend to limit battles in scope and
variety rather badly. But it occurs to me that it would make sense to
have an underground base in levels rather than all on one horizontal
plane (which is more difficult to excavate absent a coal seam or similar
geological feature). So the base could be laid out in several 3x3
levels, with certain facilities (access, hanger, air defense) only
allowed on the top level. The aliens could attack each level in turn,
starting with the topmost and moving down. You could require a base
access to be built down to each lower level before developing that
level, and each mission after the first would have all the intruders
(some missions will be XVI humans, right?) starting in the access to
that level. With four 3x3 levels minus three extra access facilities
minus six randomly placed unbuidable spots on the lower levels (which
would make more sense for geologic/structural reasons) would give you a
base of the same approximate size, though it would require some
modification of the base view screen (simplest might be to lay out the
levels in a 2x2(3x3) grid with the level number superimposed on each
level's center tile). This could also require you to fight your way back
out for every level lost, which would be pretty interesting (in that
case you would be the one spawning at the access facility, the aliens
would be spread around in your wrecked facilities). Although given the
probable effect of too many random unbuildable locations on large
facilities like alien containment and workshops, it might make sense to
only have one of them per lower level.

Individual facilities could be represented as having two or three
stories in the tactical map (in addition to corridor system perhaps?),
the idea being that each level is significantly deeper down than the
previous one. I don't think there's any need to force the player to
build the access for each level in the middle of that level. In some
ways that would make sense, but if we think of the different levels of
the base being excavated with some off-set to reduce geological
stresses...well, whichever is easier to implement is probably
fine.--[ChunLing](User:ChunLing "wikilink") 16:04, 29 May 2009 (UTC)