Nice that we have the wiki.

WoW! This a next generation wiki. It has talk pages for every article! I
wonder how many people can figure it out for themselves. Myself, I
didn't know until I read a commentary to a deletion of my comments in a
Chatter section. I see in the history of the article that some other
persons had the same problem as I did, despite repetitive moving their
comments to the talk page. What to do?

Perhaps, until people are accustomed to the talk pages, mention on the
bottom/top of most debated articles that the talk page is accessed with
"discussion" tab above and that all comments are welcome?

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink")

Hi Bandobras. Yeah, it's nice to finally have a wiki :)

But concerning the discussion pages ... i really though that the
"discussion" box on the *'top of the page* would give away that one can
discuss there ;) Not to mention that this wiki uses the *very* popular
MediaWiki-software (used for
[<http://wikipedia.org>](http://wikipedi.org)) that alot of people are
already famililar with ;) PS: you can 'sign' your postings here with
--\~\~\~\~ or --\~\~\~ and it will automatically insert something like
me signature at the end of this text. The practice that you put your
name in front of the text is chat/im/irc style, but not very functional
in a wiki ... where it's also used as a seperator between the
dialog-participants ;) I've editited your text above, so you can see how
that looks like.

--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 09:25, 7 June 2006 (CEST) (\<--
four tildes)

I guess you are right. Thanks!

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 18:13, 12 June 2006 (CEST)

There is someting wrong with the text

*You've followed a link to a page that doesn't exist yet. To create the
page, start typing in the box below (see the help page for more info).
If you are here by mistake, just click your browser's back button.*

It has a link to the edit page for "help page" and editing the help page
does not change it to a regular link. Just check it by entering a link
to any nonexistent page and clicking on "help page".

--[Bandobras](User:Bandobras "wikilink") 10:12, 25 June 2006 (CEST)