## Contribute translating.

Hi, i would like to contribute translating some text for es_ES. Is there
something special I must do to edit? I've read I should lock pages so
that two people don't work on same translation at a time, but i don't
know how this is done.

For example, i've got this one
<http://ufoai.ninex.info/wiki/index.php?title=Aliens/Autopsia_Alien%C3%ADgena_--_Ortnok_extra&action=edit>

--[Barbanegra](User:Barbanegra "wikilink") 16:51, 10 February 2008 (CET)

Hi Barbanegra, welcome to UFO:AI :)

There are no real prerequisites to translate entries. Please get in
touch with the already active ES translators listed here ([Available
translations](Available_translations "wikilink")) before you start to
avoid duplicate work ... *how* exactly you manage that is mostly up to
you though ;)

The locking comment is mainly a tip for (senior) translators to keep
finished (or in-progress) pages from getting messed up too much. It is
suggested to use the talk pages (and/or contact the translator in
charge) to point out errors you found and discuss/confirm them there.

The link to the wiki pages and the final status of the translated pages
(in-game "po" file) should also be reflected in the [List of
msgid](List_of_msgid "wikilink") pages. For your example that would be
[List of msgid/Aliens](List_of_msgid/Aliens "wikilink").

Rights for e.g. locking will be granted via Wiki-Groups ... I'll add you
to the translator group. But keep in mind that with great power comes
great responsibility.

The actual translation of the wiki-pages in the game is managed with a
script from svn (which transfers the text to the game). If you need more
information about that just ask.

Normal text (i.e. everything you find in the game menu, buttons, etc...)
is translated directly via poEdit (See [Po](Po "wikilink")).

--[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 09:03, 11 February 2008 (CET)

Ok, thanks. --[Barbanegra](User:Barbanegra "wikilink") 17:25, 16
February 2008 (CET)