## Psionics feature and other ideas

Winter, I was wondering what plans you had for the Psionics concept. In
the original XCOM, there was a training facility for soldiers to
practice their psionics ability but they needed a separate tool to use
their newfound talent. I was thinking of using implants instead of a
separate tool this time. That this implant would be a small computer
chip and some wiring to amplify the section of the human brain
associated with psionic powers. The soldier would be able to induce
panic or fear within the enemy and if their psionic rating is high
enough, even control their minds.

Also for the XVI concept, if the player comes across human enemy
soldiers, how about having a feature in which if you capture them
(instead of killing them), they get cured and healed back at base,
increasing your standing amongst the world's nations?

One last thing: since a transport is able to have a mounted weapon, how
about using the transport to provide air support during the battle? Or a
feature in which the transport bombards the area before sending the
troops in? If the bombard feature is used, then buildings and some
civilians will be killed as a consequence but aliens will lose soldiers
also. --[Brainy19](User:Brainy19 "wikilink") 14:26, 24 January, 2008
(CET)

#

Winter, please consider my comments on
[Talk:UFO/Scout](Talk:UFO/Scout "wikilink")
--[Blondandy](User:Blondandy "wikilink") 15:31, 5 June 2007 (CEST)

You should now be able to lock/unlock and move (the 'source' page is
then redirected to the 'new one') pages. Please tell me if this works ok
(or not) for you. --[Hoehrer](User:Hoehrer "wikilink") 16:00, 29
September 2006 (CEST)

## PHALANX

Hi Winter,
while I was working on some translations from english to german I
noticed that "PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit" appears quite
often in the texts. The quoted text wasn't translated in the german
texts because someone who worked on the translation earlier thought that
"Extraterrestrial Response Unit" is more or less part of the name (or
whatever reason he had in mind). I wasn't sure if this is part of the
name or not but actually I didn't mind because someone who doesn't
understand any english would not have any benefit of thouse words he
doesn't understand so I translated them. Now Mattn told me that he isn't
sure if I translated the part right but he (and actually also I) thinks
that the idea was that the PHALANX is a group (of humans) who responds
to the threat from the extraterrestrial life forms. My translation makes
it look like the PHALANX is a group of extraterrestrial life forms who
respond to something (which isn't mentioned in the name).

(Maybe because my english isn't perfect) I am wondering if the name
"PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit" does clearly say that the
PHALANX respond to the threat of the extraterrestrial life forms. If the
name could be interpreted the other way round like I did in my
translation (maybe by mistake this is the real sence in the name) could
you please change the source files so I can correct the german
translations. [Ultrasick](User:Ultrasick "wikilink") 17:06, 13 November
2007 (CET)

Of course it's a group of humans who respond to extraterrestrial
threats. I mean, given the nature of the game, it seems obvious. ;) This
is because in English, especially in things like acronyms, a lot of the
meaning is inferred from context. Please be as creative as you need with
the translation to make sure the correct meaning gets across.
--[Winter](User:Winter "wikilink") 13:29, 21 November 2007 (CET)

## Blueprints -- Missile Battery

With reference to the UFOpaedia article on the in base Missile Battery:
"In a contest between attack and defence, the attacker has always had
the advantage." This sentence reads a bit funny for me but if I'm
reading it correctly it's saying that weapons have always been stronger
then armor. If this is the case then it is actually incorrect, for
example I believe there was a time during the crusades of Europe when
the knights would come out of battles looking like porcupines covered in
arrows however completely unharmed as the armor they wore easily blocked
the arrows. Sorry for my nit picking, it's a curse
really.--[ASA-IRULE](User:ASA-IRULE "wikilink") 08:34, 5 April 2008
(CEST)

## Mockup for equip menu

Hello. I read "Winter already made a layout mockup for equip menu" on
the [TODO/General](TODO/General "wikilink") page. Can you provide the
page/image? I am interesting by looking all proposal GUI. Its not that
we can see at [Proposals/UI (2008)](Proposals/UI_(2008) "wikilink")?
Thanks a lot. [Bayo](User:Bayo "wikilink") 08:08, 16 September 2008
(UTC)

## Adding new pages

Sorry for asking, but how does one add a new page to the wiki?