### Introduction

These tables are generated by [blondandy's](User:Blondandy "wikilink")
program. If you see any innaccuracy, or feel the data could be presented
better, please let him know, so he can update his code. Generating the
tables using a program makes them easier to maintain as the weapons are
tweaked.

### Tables

[armour table](armour_table "wikilink")
Learn which armour resists which weapons.

<!-- -->

[weapon skills table](Weapon_skills_table "wikilink")
See which skills are used in calculation of hit probability for various
weapons/ammo/firemodes. Includes number of hands required to hold and
use a weapon (having a hand free is important for grenade and medikit
use).

<!-- -->

[melee weapon table](melee_weapon_table "wikilink")
Compare the hand-to-hand combat weapons.

<!-- -->

[damage rate table](damage_rate_table "wikilink")
Compare damage rates from direct-fire guns.

<!-- -->

[precision table](precision_table "wikilink")
Compare precision of direct-fire guns.

<!-- -->

[damage rate vs. distance](damage_rate_vs_distance "wikilink")
Gives mean damage rate (includes damage per shot and TU taken, etc) as a
function of distance to target. Includes estimation of hit probability
in the calculation.

<!-- -->

[firemode damage vs. distance](firemode_damage_vs_distance "wikilink")
If you have one opportunity to discharge a weapon (*eg* reaction fire),
this table will tell you how effective it is likely to be. Includes
estimation of hit probability in the calculation.

<!-- -->

[comprehensive weapon table](Comprehensive_weapon_table "wikilink")
Get a more comprehensive overview of the all the data associated with
the guns. (To keep the table a reasonable size, it is not entirely
comprehensive...)

<!-- -->

[comprehensive weapon table of the development version](Comprehensive_weapon_table_of_the_development_version "wikilink")
Warning: this is a large page. This is a weapon comparison table using
statistics from the development version of the game. It displays the
effects of every weapon against every armour that can be used in
tactical combat (no aircraft or base weapons included). Generated by a
script from [Dumper](User:Dumper "wikilink").

### References

[weapon ufo scripts](UFO-Scripts/weapon_*.ufo "wikilink")
This explains parameters from the ufo scripts, which are summarised in
these tables

[Category:Equipment](Category:Equipment "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")