## Description

XVI is a virus-like organism that lives in the blood and bone marrow of
infected creatures. The organism is
[psionically](Gameplay_Proposals/Psionic_warfare "wikilink") powerful,
and links together with other organisms to create a distributed
intelligence, like a network of tiny computers hooking together to form
a more intelligent one.

Singly, XVI hosts are quite stupid, reduced to bare instincts. It takes
approximately 8-10 XVI-carrying hosts together to create a mind with
human-like intelligence. However, each additional host makes the group a
tiny bit more intelligent, and the alien mothership has a population
numbering in the trillions. The only things limiting this alien mind are
the scope and nature of its own thoughts and instincts.

## Modus Operandi

XVI's most powerful internal urge is to spread and become more
intelligent. Its goals, therefore, are to create a version of itself
capable of infecting and thereby enslaving the human race. Initially
none of the various XVI strains can penetrate the human immune system,
but after enough research and acquiring of tissue samples, a new XVI
strain is engineered to infect humans.

The infection spreads by the direct injection of infected blood into a
new host. The organism fools the victim's immune system long enough to
settle in the victim's bone marrow, where it starts to change all
newly-created defensive cells to ignore XVI and destroy the old
defensive cells.

This results in a feeling of extreme illness for the victim, lasting
anywhere between 30 seconds and 30 minutes, depending on the severity of
infection. This period is marked by severe vomiting, erratic behaviour,
and discolouration of the skin in the form of red and grey blotches.
Eventually the skin will turn entirely pink-grey as XVI eliminates the
remnants of the old immune system.

Once XVI has a good hold on the victim, it will
[psionically](Gameplay_Proposals/Psionic_warfare "wikilink") control the
victim's every move, and he or she will be hostile to any PHALANX
operatives.

Alien bases will be the centres of XVI spread on Earth. Knocking out an
alien base will allow the area around it to recover, especially if the
player researches XVI counter-virii, but many of the infected will
simply flee to other areas.

## Incorporation & TODO

The idea is for the player to wage a biological war against XVI for
control of Earth. XVI spreads, PHALANX attempts to create new vaccines,
XVI counters the vaccines. Each successful vaccine or alien base mission
will buy the player some time, but XVI cannot be defeated without
destroying the alien mothership.

## Story texts

- [XVI Census](Research/XVI_Census "wikilink")
- [Human Vaccine](Proposals/Human_Vaccine "wikilink")
- [Behind the Facade](Proposals/Behind_the_Facade "wikilink") - Finally
  understanding XVI
- [Enemy on the Earth
  Revisited](Proposals/Enemy_on_the_Earth_Revisited "wikilink")
- [Alien Infiltration](Proposals/Alien_Infiltration "wikilink")

[Category:Development](Category:Development "wikilink")