## Technical Specifications: CRC-8 SMG

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The alien attack on Mumbai made our situation painfully clear. Their
technology is far more advanced than ours. The complete inability of
Commonwealth troops to make a dent in the Mumbai offensive revealed
critical weaknesses in current military training and equipment. They
lost three battalions just bringing the aliens to a standstill without
inflicting significant casualties. PHALANX has to overcome these odds,
and to do that we need the very best human technology has to offer.

The Excalibur Program was created to find the most effective weapons on
Earth by reviewing their manufacturing standards, durability,
operational record, and their combat performance in the situations where
we've managed to bring the aliens to battle.

From our experiences in Mumbai and other stricken cities, we've
concluded that the aliens seem to concentrate their efforts on
population centres, especially dense urban areas. A majority of
engagements have taken place at knife-fighting range. For the purposes
of the Excalibur Program, we've chosen several high-performance weapons
for our Close Range Combat package.

Designed and manufactured in mainland China, the Ohm 55 SMG is one of
the most frightening weapons to come out of the Second Cold War. It was
first prototyped in 2035 by scientists working for the Communist Chinese
government. Production models were only trickling into government units
by the end of the war, but the rebel and Commonwealth troops quickly
learned to respect the Ohm's ferocity.

Its rate of fire at full auto exceeds 1200 rounds per minute. It can
chew through a 30-round magazine in two seconds. It fires an upgraded
version of the Belgian 5.7mm armour-piercing round, a steel penetrator
with aluminium core, which can tear kevlar like paper and tumbles
brutally through flesh and bone. Even modern ballistic fibre cannot stop
this round at anything closer than 12 metres. The Ohm 55 has dominated
the field of SMGs for the past 50 years and will continue to do so for
at least the next decade.

The Ohm is highly manoeuvrable with a short barrel and sleek lines, but
can suffer from excessive muzzle climb on full auto due to the sheer
weight of lead the weapon puts out. Autofire also tends to empty the
magazine before the shooter even realises he's holding down the trigger.
Still, after nearly 50 years in service around the world, this remains
the Ohm 55's only known design flaw.

For PHALANX use, we have given this submachine gun the classification
CRC-8.

### Recommended Doctrine

The CRC-8 is intended for point-blank urban firefights. It will perform
very well in this role, but don't expect it to hit the broad side of a
barn out to medium range. It can also function as a high-powered
sidearm, but may be too bulky for most soldiers to use in this manner.

While the CRC-8 does suffer excessive muzzle climb on full auto,
throwing off the aim of even experienced users, it is much more docile
in its standard burst mode. Full auto should rarely be considered
outside of panic situations.

### Addenda

Despite good penetration against organics, this weapon performs very
poorly against robotic targets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [SMG Magazine](Equipment/Ammunition/SMG_Magazine "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")