## Blueprints -- Laboratory

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 02 October 2021

By: Dr. Richard Strohm, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Lab.png "Lab.png")There is a reason why PHALANX labs have been
considered the best in the US for the past 50 years. We invented
aircraft Stealth technology in the 1960s with the XD4 stealth
interceptor and have remained at the forefront with the first production
of artificial spider silk four years ago. These are the results of
combining the brightest people with the finest equipment available. By
keeping ourselves at the forefront, we ensure readiness against a
possible extraterrestrial threat.

Our new laboratories are equipped for any kind of research;
biotechnology, nanotechnology, high-energy lasers, particle physics and
more. There is nothing that can fit inside the laboratory's walls that
cannot be properly studied, dissected or disassembled. It comes standard
with growing vats that can create any organic matter we might need,
hologram projectors for testing and 3D simulation, laser and maser
installations, a miniature tokamak fusion chamber for plasma research,
and a powerful particle accelerator.

Any one of these installations would cost a fortune for a civilian
operation or military contractor, but due to our experience and
efficiency, we can build and maintain all of them at a fraction of the
cost. Project times are also greatly reduced by having many types of
equipment available at a moment's notice. Our high-level research makes
full and continuous use of all of it.

As long as we keep receiving the funding we need, the laboratory will
remain one of the most essential parts of our defence strategy. In order
to defeat any enemy, we must first come to know him, perhaps even
understand him. To do that we'll need the best research facilities
humanity can build, and ours are it.

The Laboratory requires a working Power Plant and Command Centre to
function.

### Recommended Doctrine

Our scientists don't need a lab to live in a base, but they can't do
their work without one. We should construct and operate as many labs as
may be needed and/or affordable. All extraterrestrial technology must be
analysed and reverse-engineered (if possible) as soon as we can.

As laboratories go, ours are quite cost-effective to build and provide
work space for up to 10 scientists each, working full-time.

During a possible base attack, they are a moderate-priority target. If
extraterrestrial attackers are aware enough of our existence to attack
our bases directly, they will most certainly want to shut down our
research programs. There are easier targets that can threaten the
survival entire base -- especially the power plant -- but if presented
as a target of opportunity, the EXTs may very well take the time to set
off explosives inside the lab, which tends to be full of volatile
substances. Severe damage to the base could result if our labs are not
adequately protected.

### Addenda

Addendum, Dr. Dolan Connor, 16 March 2084:

Reviewing the files on PHALANX laboratory facilities, I have concluded
that these blueprints were well ahead of their time. The design is still
viable and can be adapted to our use with only minor equipment upgrades.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")