# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Aircraft Plating

Commander, now that we have the ability to produce and work the alien
materials, a whole new range of options has opened up to us. These
materials are so strong and flexible that they can be used for almost
anything. Their most promising uses, however, have been in aircraft
design -- specifically armour.

We've had an extremely difficult time shooting down UFOs thanks to the
resilient outer skin of alien materials. Unfortunately we can't simply
slap this same kind of skin onto our own craft because the alien
materials are far too heavy. Our craft would struggle to even get off
the ground. That needn't be the end of it, though.

Commander, if you let us do some research on it, I believe we can come
up with an armouring scheme that -- while it might decrease speed and
increase fuel consumption a bit -- should give our aircraft a far better
survival chance against the alien weapons during interceptions.
According to our calculations, aircraft with this kind of armour could
withstand several particle beam hits and still remain combat effective.

It's a very promising possibility, Commander, one that definitely
deserves investigation.

--중령 Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** 중령 Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Aircraft Plating

Commander, I've got some good news. My team and I have finished
prototyping the alien aircraft plating project. Our new armour is now
ready for full PHALANX production.

This has been a difficult project from the start. We've faced several
major challenges in designing equipment capable of bending the alien
materials into the shapes we want, and 'programming' the materials to
change when we want and how we want them to do so. Ultimately we
overcame these problems, but then we had to deal with the natural
limitations of the material.

The main drawback of these alien materials is their weight. They are
significantly heftier than modern human aircraft materials, and anything
we make from them will suffer from the extra weight. The only way the
aliens manage to keep their wingless UFOs in the sky is through
overwhelming engine power. Airspeed, manoeuvrability, fuel consumption,
maximum operational range -- all these will be negatively affected by
putting alien materials onto our aircraft.

However, it's a sacrifice we don't seem to have any choice in making.
Even a very thin skin of alien materials offers a substantial protective
benefit, shrugging off hits that would turn our Polymer Aircraft Armour
to paste. During air trials of the new armour, one of our own
"Sparrowhawk" missiles -- which can bring down most Earth-built aircraft
in a single hit -- failed to inflict significant harm to the test craft.
I'm not even joking. We've got half an hour of compiled test footage
that will confirm everything I just said.

The new aircraft plating we've designed takes full advantage of these
capabilities and shows the supreme toughness of the alien materials. The
armour can take Particle Beam Weapon hits at point blank range without
breaking up. For the very first time, our aircraft will be able to soak
up tremendous amounts of damage and still keep flying like the aliens
do. I wouldn't say we're quite in the same league yet, but we're getting
there.

It may only be feasible to use this armour on aircraft equipped with
alien propulsion or otherwise upgraded engines, due to the increased
weight and reduced speed and range. Still, even if that turns out to be
the case, the new plating will be essential in keeping our current
airfleet effective against the mounting alien threat. You and I both
know the price tag of new aircraft, Commander -- we cannot afford to let
any of our planes become obsolete.

--중령 Navarre

## Links