## Technical Specifications: Flechette Shells

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL YELLOW**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Delta Clearance

Filed: 20 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

This magazine contains 7 shells of flechette shot. Each 12mm shell
contains 8 tiny flechettes -- solid steel needles with fins to stabilise
their flight. This ammunition is military-only, banned for all civilian
use due to the flechettes' excellent performance against armour. The
flechettes are prone to tumble after penetration, resulting in nasty
wounds that will either kill the target or send it running for cover.

This short shell -- only 90mm long -- was designed for
pistol-configuration shotguns like the CRC-M9 Micro Shotgun. However,
the CRC-212 Riot Shotgun can fire it just as easily, with all the
performance increases of a full-sized weapon.

The magazine is meant to be loaded into a CRC-212 Riot Shotgun or CRC-M9
Micro Shotgun.

### Recommended Doctrine

All soldiers equipped with shotguns should carry at least one reload
whenever they go out in the field. It is not advisable to send our
troops into combat without spare magazines.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Damage Type

- [normal](Damage/normal "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Ammunition](Category:Ammunition "wikilink")