## Technical Specifications: Fuel Pod

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Technical Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

We've determined that the modular equipment bays on our aircraft can be
used to accept extra fuel reserves. By installing these special but very
simple fuel pods, we can greatly increase the range of an aircraft by
loading more fuel on board, and improve the craft's speed by allowing
the engines enough juice to run on maximum all the way. It also lets
pilots make far more liberal use of the afterburner, further upping the
speed, allowing us to better compete with hostile UFOs.

Take note, however, that installing a fuel pod will add a significant
amount of weight to the craft. Care must be taken not to overload our
airframes. If an aircraft is too heavy to safely launch, our Command
Centre computers will automatically deny it launch clearance.

### Recommended Doctrine

We should make use of these pods in any situation where our aircraft are
unable to reach their destinations, or where they end up with too little
fuel to continue engaging a UFO, or where a large section of ground is
left uncovered by our network of bases. They will help to extend our
reach and provide more protection to Earth and our people.

### Addenda

Addendum, Executive Officer Abel S. Howard, 20 March 2084:

Having read Cdr. Navarre's report, Commander, I have to stress that our
charter stipulates we must stop any and all alien activity on Earth. We
can't afford to let some of it continue because it's just out of our
planes' reach. If civilians were to die because the dropship couldn't
quite make it, our image would be shattered and our funding may suffer
the consequences. We should keep some fuel pod-equipped planes on
standby to deal with distant incidents.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")