# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Col. Ingrid Falkland, Intelligence Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Alien Base

Good morning, Sir.

As you're aware, we are facing an increasingly worsening threat from the
XVI virus. Over the past few weeks, DivIntel has been making a push into
the areas in which the infection is most concentrated, in order to try
and find some piece of intel that could help us understand how and why
this infection spreads so fast from these focal points. I have been
personally supervising the effort.

It paid off this morning.

Our reconnaisance teams have located what appears to be a camouflaged
alien installation. The size and purpose of this installation is
unknown, but we've established that it is located at the exact heart of
an infection hot-spot. I harbour grave suspicions that this facility is
directly connected with the lightning spread of XVI in the region. At
this point it also seems likely there are more of these planetside
installations, built right under our noses, serving as command centres
and bases of operation for the alien threat.

Dealing with these bases has to be one of our top priorities. I
recommend we send a heavily-armed team to pay them a visit, a bit of
reconnaissance-in-force. We need more information about the layout and
purpose of the base, and the best way to do that is to capture it. We
should eliminate all aliens at the location and, once we've secured the
area and salvaged what we need, destroy the entire installation. This
should constitute a significant blow to alien operations and restrict --
if not halt -- the spread of XVI in the area.

Of course this mission will be highly dangerous. The base is right in
the middle of an infection hot-spot, so the entire area is hostile
territory. We may encounter anti-air ordnance and UFOs scrambled to the
base's defence. A heavy escort will certainly be required. And . . .
there's worse.

Satellite imagery and recon flyovers have indicated that infected humans
appear to be actively cooperating with the aliens. There's a good
probability our unit will encounter human hostiles during the assault.
This may not sit well with everyone, but if they open fire on our
troops, we must be ready to respond in kind.

That's all the intel I've got for you on this one, Sir. Good luck and
good hunting.

With kind regards, Col. Falkland

## Result

(none)