## Result

### Overview

TO: Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

FROM: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

DATE: %02i %s %i

SUB: Psionics Training Room

The Psionics Training Room is a facility that seems simplistic at first,
but do not be fooled; the walls are sound-proof(to prevent cheating when
soldiers train to communicate with their minds) and advanced equipment
is used to help stimulate the portion of the soldiers' brains that
allows them to communicate telepathically. Soldiers will be required to
train everyday, for these exercises are very difficult to master. A
human can spend decades training and still not reach the peak of their
potential. Also, at least one doctor must man this facility, to monitor
the brain activity of each soldier. It is possible for a soldier to push
his/her mind to the limit, thus risking brain damage.

Also when soldiers have reached a certain level of training, live alien
subjects will be required so the soldier can practice taking control of
the alien mind and overcome the hive mind biology. Such training will be
essential on capturing live subjects on the field and also will help on
our interrogation efforts.

### Recommended Doctrine

Should an alien force attack our base, it is essential that this
facility be protected. If the enemy comes into this facility, the
equipment stored here can be used against us. An alien can take this
equipment and amplify its psionics, making it easier to take control of
our soldiers. Should this facility get destroyed, the effects would not
be disastrous but significant. We would not be able to train our
soldiers' psionic abilities, putting us at a disadvantage against the
alien threat.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` `[`Human Psionics`](Research/Human_Psionics "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` Enables construction -- `[`Psionics Training Room`](Base_Facilities/Psionics_Training_Room "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Research](Category:Research "wikilink")