## Blueprints -- Training Simulator

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Construction Precis, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 17 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

The latest advances in virtual-reality simulation and holographic
projectors come together in our Training Simulator. When linked with the
Command Centre mainframe, this facility can recreate any emergency or
tactical situation down to the smallest detail. The simulations are
fully convincing and can become so intense that all our personnel must
be psychologically certified to prove they're able to handle the drills.

The Training Simulator plays a major part in the daily lives of our
soldiers. On an ordinary day, battle-ready troops will spend
approximately 6 out of 20 duty hours in the simulator. This will
increase their skills over time and raise their readiness for combat
against alien opponents. The simulator does the same thing for our
pilots, equipped with an electronic cockpit and a special pressure suit
that realistically simulates gee stresses for a 100% accurate simulation
of air combat based on our best estimate of UFO capabilities.

The simulator contains approximations of several recorded scenarios from
Mumbai, which are -- as of this writing -- the only infantry combat
experiences we've had with the alien threat. Other scenarios have been
created whole cloth, the aliens commanded either by combat instructors
or an artificial intelligence program designed to emulate alien
behaviour and tactics that we've observed.

Unfortunately, our simulation options are limited by our lack of
experience fighting aliens. So far we have only encountered the one
alien race, the 'greys', and the robotic spiders we've seen on camera.
Both types of alien are highly dangerous and have tremendously
outperformed human troops during the engagements we've recorded. Worse,
there may be more types of alien we have not yet seen and about whom we
would have no tactical data. The relative performance of our troops may
be impaired until we can build up a larger body of experience about how
alien squads operate and communicate, and perhaps discover their goals
and intentions for Earth.

All engagements involving PHALANX troops are recorded via cameras and
will be turned into simulator scenarios where possible. It is highly
effective for our soldiers to relive an engagement and see where they
may have made mistakes or could have been more effective, and for new
recruits to learn from our amassed experience.

### Recommended Doctrine

Any base housing an armed response team needs a Training Simulator. The
simulator is absolutely vital for nurturing and maintaining our
soldiers' combat skills and physical fitness. The simulator also
develops the soldier's individual talents and assists in understanding
his or her combat experiences. Without proper training, our troops don't
stand a chance of surviving in the field.

The Training Simulator will be a minor risk during a base attack. It
would be expensive to repair, yes, but both tactically and strategically
it has little value to an attacker. It stores no volatiles or live
munitions, and shutting it down while being repaired would not
significantly impede our operations.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")