# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Antimatter Missile

Commander, we've recovered an interesting type of alien missile from the
disassembled UFO. It seems to be powered by antimatter, with advanced
guidance systems, extensive EW (Electronic Warfare) capabilities and top
speeds far in excess of anything we've ever seen.

These missiles may be the greatest threat to our aircraft yet, even
worse than the alien beam weaponry. Preliminary testing tells us that
their guidance systems practically laugh at our ECM, in most cases
blowing right through everything we can throw up.

It's extremely important we research these missiles and figure out how
they work in order to develop some defence against them.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Antimatter Missile

Commander, my team and I have just wrapped up our work with the
antimatter missile recovered by our field team. As usual, there's good
news and bad news. I'll get right to the point.

The missile's main structure consists of a rigid outer casing of alien
materials, the same stuff used to plate UFO hulls, and is designed to
fragment on impact into hundreds of shards of hot fast-moving shrapnel.
This shell contains individual compartments for targeting, avionics, EW
equipment and other electronics, and -- taking up most of the rear half
of the missile -- a proton-antiproton annihilation rocket.

The rocket is by far the most powerful missile engine ever seen on
Earth, capable of attaining speeds that are flatly impossible through
ordinary chemical reactions. It propels the missile to speeds where it
no longer needs an onboard warhead. The kinetic energy generated by the
impact is enough to tear an unarmoured human airliner to shreds, and
even a proximity detonation of the missile's antimatter fuel is usually
enough to knock down a fighter jet. Our interceptors are not built to
withstand this kind of violence.

The missile's onboard electronics have been particularly interesting.
They're vastly superior to our own, but I have some good news. We've
locked down enough of the electromagnetic frequencies used by the
missile's EW suite that we can start taking some action against them.
I've taken the liberty of updating our aircraft software with the new
information, which means we should have a significantly easier time
tracking these things on radar, as well as giving our craft a better
chance of evading alien missile fire.

We can duplicate the missiles well enough, but they still require
antimatter for fuel, probably the most valuable substance in the
universe right now. I've got some ideas on how to get around this, but
I'm not ready to submit any proposals just yet. I'll let you know when
I've cracked it, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre