# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Blade

Commander, our last tactical mission brought back a strange alien weapon
in the form of a plasma chamber with a handle. At least, we assume it's
a weapon; the shape seems to suggest some kind of plasma-based knife,
though I have no idea how this would work. We can't quite figure out how
to turn it on or what purpose it serves in the alien arsenal.

More research is definitely required, Commander. Whenever we have a bit
of free lab time, I'd like a go at it.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Plasma Blade

Commander, we've figured out the secrets of the alien weapon. I'm afraid
the news is not good.

We were wrong to think of the plasma blade as a knife. In essence, it is
a one-shot anti-armour weapon, like the Panzerfaust of WW2, except
designed to kill armoured infantry and small vehicles rather than tanks.

It's shaped like a knife handle with no blade. In place of the blade it
has a small black nozzle with a large plastic ring around it. There is
no visible trigger or activation button. Instead, it's armed by twisting
the handle, and subsequently fired by bringing the nozzle within several
centimetres of a reasonably flat surface. Only then does the plasma
blade go to work.

The plastic ring around the nozzle ejects a charge of sticky foam which
hardens almost instantly to the strength of concrete. At this point the
weapon is locked firmly to the target and an airtight seal is created.
There is only vacuum between the nozzle and the target. All the while, a
jet of plasma has been heating up inside the handle, which is now let
loose and shot into the target at a fraction of the speed of light.
Plasma and hot shrapnel begin bouncing around inside the armour, tearing
up circuits or flesh.

There is no armour that can withstand this weapon. If a proper seal is
achieved, the target has no hope of survival. The plasma blade's only
saving grace is that it's not very accurate, and while it can be thrown,
its chances of achieving a seal when thrown are very slim. Planting one
by hand has a much higher chance of success. If an alien manages to rush
our troops while wielding a plasma blade, anything in the immediate area
will be in danger. All available fire should be brought to bear to
neutralise the target before it has the chance to hit anyone.

This weapon frightens me, Commander. Its very existence implies a lot of
things. Combined with the aliens' usual pragmatism with regards to their
own lives, it says to me that they may be prepared to employ kamikaze
tactics, sacrificing their own lives just to kill one of us. 1 human for
1 alien is a ratio that neither PHALANX nor humanity can possibly
afford. Even if it was closer to 10:1 I still wouldn't fancy our
chances. After all, how many of them are there?

I wish we'd never found the damned thing. I don't like where this war is
going.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [plasma](Damage/plasma "wikilink")

### Skill

- [close](Skills/close "wikilink")

## Links

- [Combat Knife](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Combat_Knife "wikilink")
- [Kerrblade](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Kerrblade "wikilink")
- [Plasma Pistol](Equipment/Secondary_Weapons/Plasma_Pistol "wikilink")

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Plasma blade`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Plasma Blade`

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")