## Blueprints -- Small UFO Hangar

**CLASSIFIED LEVEL BLACK**

PHALANX Extraterrestrial Response Unit

Research Document, Sigma Clearance -- Commander's Eyes Only

Filed: 19 March 2084

By: Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Overview

![](Ufo-hanger.png "Ufo-hanger.png")These are the finished plans for our
new UFO storage hangars. They are designed to house one recovered UFO
for disassembly, and will be marked as occupied until the craft has been
fully broken down into its component parts and the parts transferred to
base Storage. UFOs require significant disassembly before they will fit
inside Storage, so they must be dismantled before we can begin to store
or use the recovered parts. Doing this job on-site is highly
inadvisable. It could be hazardous to the health of our scientists and
engineers, it might attract looters, and it would without doubt severely
compromise the safety and secrecy of our operation.

The importance of studying captured UFOs should be more than obvious. It
will give us insight into the workings and vulnerabilities of alien
craft, and it may result in the discovery of new techniques to improve
our own craft's effectiveness. Once a recovered UFO is secured for
transport, it is carried to a PHALANX base by means of transport
helicopters. Salvage operations are handled by local UN forces to
relieve pressure on our limited resources.

The Small UFO Hangar can store 1 alien craft of limited size. We will
assess the size of each UFO type as we encounter them and determine what
hangar is required to store them.

The Small UFO Hangar requires a Power Plant to feed its high-power
machinery and plasma-based cutting tools. It also requires a Workshop
and Storage to handle the dismantling.

### Recommended Doctrine

All salvaged UFOs should be permanently disabled once delivered into our
hands. Should the base come under attack from alien forces, we can't
afford the extra risk of stored UFOs being reactivated and used against
us. Even without a drive unit, any weapon systems left active would
present a grave threat to our base.

If this procedure is followed, the UFO Hangar will be of minor tactical
importance to alien attackers and will most likely be ignored except as
a target of opportunity. Preventing us from dismantling UFOs would be
far less attractive than shutting down our research or production, or
destroying our base outright.

We will most likely be needing several of these installations to strip
and/or examine several UFOs at a time. However, if necessary, we can
remove a craft from our hangars and have it destroyed to make room for a
new one. In this scenario all parts already transferred to Storage will
be available, but everything not yet removed from the UFO will be
destroyed with it.

### Addenda

None.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

See also: [Vehicles & UFOs](Vehicles_&_UFOs "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Facilities](Category:Facilities "wikilink")