# UFOpaedia Entry

## Message

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Dr. Connor, R&D: Bio & Containment Division, PHALANX, Atlantic
Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** A New Twist

Commander,

This is an extremely urgent report, please believe me when I say it
cannot wait for anything.

I've found some disturbing new information during our continued research
into the XVI organism. I have reason to believe that XVI may be an even
larger part of the alien plan than we first suspected.

First, some background. During our initial analyses of the aliens'
cellular structure, we encountered some anomalies where our DNA
replication tests would fail due to unexplained sample contamination. We
initially discarded this as human error, but the problem has continued
to appear with unerring regularity. The same result, again and again;
every time we run a sample that hasn't been cryofrozen for storage, we
have difficulty extracting a single uncontaminated sequence. It didn't
make any sense until our recent discovery of the XVI infection in
civilian people. I immediately suspected a correlation but wanted to
wait until I could prove it, and since then I've spent most of my off
hours studying the problem. Now I believe I've found the cause -- XVI
itself.

I've determined that all the aliens carry their own versions of this
same micro-organic infection. There are differences to account for the
different bodies and blood types -- some of these varieties don't appear
to live in blood at all -- but it is unmistakably the same thing. We can
only assume that the different strands of the infection were engineered
to suit each species.

Since all the alien species carry a unique strand of the infection, I've
decided to modify our naming conventions slightly, giving individual XVI
strands alphabetical designations after the source in which the strand
can be found. Humans have XVI-H, Tamans have XVI-T, and so forth.

The organism's function is not readily apparent in these aliens since we
have no uninfected control specimens against which we can measure the
effect. However, given this information, we have to conclude that XVI is
more than simply a bio-weapon against humanity. It may even be used in a
similar way -- an enslavement device suppressing individual thought and
linking the subject into the group mind, whether there is a group or
not. Perhaps the aliens that are sent to Earth are all members of some
sort of slave soldier caste, or even prisoners forced to fight, like the
Red Army's convict battalions in World War 2. At this point we can
barely begin to speculate.

Commander, I think we should pursue aggressive investigation into XVI so
that we can find the truth behind some of these mysteries. We have to
determine the true purpose of this organism, what it means to the war
and to us as a species. XVI-H is possibly the biggest threat we've ever
faced.

We cannot let these things enslave our planet.

Sincerely,

Dr. Connor

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` Any 2 organic alien autopsies`
` `[`The Enemy On Earth (early)`](Aliens/The_Enemy_On_Earth_(early) "wikilink")

*`Opens:`*
` `[`The Alien Strategy`](Research/The_Alien_Strategy "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Storyline](Category:Storyline "wikilink")