# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Rifle

Commander, we've recovered an alien rifle that fires high-energy
particle beams. It's more deadly than lasers, more accurate than plasma
weapons, and an extremely nasty new threat to our troops on the
battlefield. Preliminary tests against our armour confirm that the
aliens have seriously upgunned their troops. We need to perform more
research on these weapons immediately.

Please authorise this program at your earliest convenience.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Alien Artifact -- Particle Beam Rifle

Commander, we've gotten all the info we can from this new alien rifle.
It's more bad news, I'm afraid.

We've always suspected that a real alien army would field more than just
plasma weapons and Kerrblades. Now they've gone and proved us right.
This particle beam weaponry is extremely advanced, a quantum leap above
the plasma weapons, miniaturised far beyond our ability to duplicate.

Particle-beam weaponry is designed to hit a target object with a stream
of accelerated particles moving at near-light velocities, therefore
carrying tremendous kinetic energy. Until now we've only seen the aliens
use this technology in large UFO weapons. Now, however, they're using it
on the ground in the worst way.

The rifle seems to follow a very basic, modular design, quite unlike the
plasma weapons we've already observed. All the parts can be slotted in
or out of the weapon just by pressing an appropriately-located release
catch. Strangely, none of the weapon's parts are particularly high-tech
or impressive, nothing that we can't duplicate easily with enough money
and effort. The only thing we have yet to figure out is the weapon's
ammo supply. The energy readings we've taken from the magazines are
extreme, and despite our efforts, we haven't managed to disable or
disarm one in order to safely open it up. Even shooting it dry doesn't
completely deactivate one of these magazines. More research will be
required before we can try and understand them, much less reproduce
them.

What first alarmed me about this weapon is its performance against our
infantry armour. The high-energy particles in a particle beam travel so
fast that the beam can easily punch a hole through our standard vehicle
armour. When fired at a suit of Combat Armour, the results are gruesome.
It penetrates the front of the armour without even slowing down, and
still has enough power to punch out the back and continue for several
metres before dispersing.

Much heavier protection will be required for our troops to be able to
stand up to this kind of fire. In addition to the development of
entirely new armours, we should look into upgrading our current suits as
soon as possible. We may suffer significant troop losses to alien PB
weapons if we don't.

Lastly, the rifle's shape is not at all suited to the human body, and
even with adaptations it will be poorly balanced for human shooters. If
deployed with our squads, our accuracy won't be as good as the aliens.

I'll keep you updated on our progress with the magazines, Commander.

--Cdr. Navarre

### Damage Type

- [particle beam](Damage/particle_beam "wikilink")

### Skill

- [assault](Skills/assault "wikilink")
- [sniper](Skills/sniper "wikilink")

## Links

- [Rocket
  Launcher](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Rocket_Launcher "wikilink")
- [Assault Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Assault_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Laser Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Laser_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Plasma Rifle](Equipment/Primary_Weapons/Plasma_Rifle "wikilink")
- [Rifle Particle
  Accelerator](Equipment/Ammunition/Rifle_Particle_Accelerator "wikilink")

# Stat Suggestions

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*Pro:*

1\) Very high damage.

2\) Long range.

3\) High accuracy.

*Con:*

1\) Long reload time.

2\) High recoil.

3\) Damage lowered by smoke/gas/fire.

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` 1 Particle beam rifle`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Particle Beam Rifle`
` `[`Man-Portable Particle Beams`](Research/Man-Portable_Particle_Beams "wikilink")

[Category:General](Category:General "wikilink")
[Category:Weapons](Category:Weapons "wikilink")