# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Advanced Anti-UFO Bomb

Commander,

Our "Underminer" anti-UFO bombs proved to be extremely successful
against the smaller Scout and Fighter type UFOs. However, the aliens
keep fielding larger and tougher UFOs against which our "Underminers"
have minimal impact.

Fortunately, the volume of new data we have gathered from analysing
salvaged UFOs as well as our increased knowledge concerning alien
materials has given my team several new ideas. I am confident that we
can create an improved bomb, one that will be capable of taking out
significantly larger UFOs.

We, of course, await your approval for the required funding and lab
time.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Advanced Anti-UFO Bomb

Commander,

We have just finished testing our new and improved anti-UFO bomb, which
we have designated "Heartseeker", and I'm certain that you will be
pleased by the results. Production can begin at your discretion.

The limited success of the "Underminer" against large UFOs was due to
the fact that the external armor of those UFOs, made from extremely
dense and resistant alien materials, was simply too strong for the bomb
to penetrate. In order to overcome that obstacle, we replaced the
depleted-uranium alloy used for the penetrator of our bombs with
significantly denser alien materials, similar to the way a jeweller
would use a diamond-edged tool to cut another diamond.

We have also made significant changes to the targeting and guidance
systems of the bombs. Instead of simply trying to hit the UFO, as was
the case with the "Underminer" bomb, the "Heartseeker" utilizes data
gathered from analyzing the various types of UFOs and specifically
targets the fuel tanks of each one, hence the bomb's name. The bomb
buries itself into the heavily armored antimatter containment tanks
before exploding, causing sufficient damage to initiate a
matter-antimatter reaction that turns the insides of the UFO into an
inferno.

Externally, the "Heartseeker" is very similar to the "Underminer" and
can also be equipped on any medium hardpoint of our aircraft. The only
difference is that the new bomb is slimmer for increased penetration.
Internally, the "Heartseeker" carries a significantly reduced payload of
110 kilos due to the increased weight of the alien alloys.

Our tests have shown that a "Heartseeker" will be sufficient to take out
any small or medium sized UFOs. If, however, the aliens start throwing
larger and tougher UFOs against us, we may be in trouble. Also, since
the bomb requires prior knowledge about the location of a UFO's fuel
tanks, it will be ineffective against any UFOs that haven't been fully
analyzed by PHALANX research teams.

As was the case with the older bomb, the "Heartseeker" should only be
used against UFOs that have landed or crashed in uninhabitted areas.
Also, we should not be overzealous in using it; occasionally recovering
crashed UFOs will help keep us up to date with alien plans and
technology.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` Anti-UFO Bomb`
` Alien Materials`
` UFO -- Corrupter or UFO -- Harvester or UFO -- Supply Ship`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Heartseeker Bomb`

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")