# UFOpaedia Entry

## Proposal

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Proposal: Anti-UFO Bomb

Commander,

I'm sure you harbor no doubt that we are locked in an extremely costly
war, with human lives as the ultimate price being paid. One of our main
goals as a research team is to develop the technologies that will save
as many human lives as possible -- be they protective technologies that
increase a soldier's survival odds against enemy fire or offensive
weapons which make it easier for our troops to eliminate the aliens.
Every time our ground troops engage the aliens, they risk life and limb
for the sake of humanity.

Obviously, the most effective way protect our soldiers would be to keep
them completely out of harm's way and send them in as few missions as
possible. Our analysis has shown that the largest amount of
counter-alien operations our soldiers perform concern the recovery of
crashed UFO's. However, we can't simply shoot down alien ships and leave
them unclaimed. Politically, such a thing would be viewed by our
supporting nations as a serious lack of initiative, perhaps even
negligence of duty. Aside from that, we have received confirmation that,
when not eradicated, the alien survivors of a crash site proceed to
terrorize the local populace, causing significant havoc and loss of
human life. On occasion they may even be rescued by another UFO --
though whether such rescue missions are intentional or simply a
coincidence eludes us.

During a brainstorming session, one of our more enthusiastic researchers
expressed his wish that we could "bomb them all to hell". Although we
shared his enthusiasm at the prospect, we initially discarded the idea
as impractical: the conventional payload required to pummel even the
smallest of hard-shelled UFO's into oblivion is several tonnes, more
than any single interceptor could carry. Additionally, a bombing run in
order to be effective would have to be initiated imediately after a
UFO's crash landing, so as to prevent any aliens from escaping.

However, we may have actually found a solution. While reexamining the UN
files we focused on bunker-busters, heavy bombs which were used in the
late 20th and early 21st centuries against ungerground or
heavily-armoured targets. These behemoths could penetrate more than 30
meters of earth and 6 meters of reinforced concrete, destroying their
target from the inside. I am optimistic that we could adapt such
technology, creating a smaller but powerful bomb that penetrates the
tough exterior armor of a crashed UFO and obliterates everything inside.

We simply need your go-ahead to begin our efforts.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Result

**TO:** Base Commander, PHALANX, Atlantic Operations Command

**FROM:** Cdr. Paul Navarre, R&D: Engineering Division, PHALANX,
Atlantic Operations Command

**DATE:** %02i %s %i

**SUB:** Re: Anti-UFO Bomb

Commander,

I am pleased to report that we have successfully developed our first
Anti-UFO bomb, designated "Underminer". Our design was based on the
GBU-86 "Bunker-Buster II" which developed by the former United States
near the end of 2029 but never moved past prototype stage due to the
collapse of 2031. I will provide you with a brief summary of our
results.

Although we refer to the "Underminer" as a bomb, it is technically a
large rocket since it includes a solid-fuel rocket engine. The reason we
prefer the term "bomb" is because the rocket engine is used solely to
increase the weapon's penetration capabilities; it is not required in
order for the weapon to reach it's intended target.

A single "Underminer" weighs a total of 500 kilos and can be mounted on
any medium hardpoint without the need for a specialized launcher. The
nose of the bomb is made from an alloy of depleted uranium and a small
percentage of titanium. This alloy is two times more dense than lead
while also being self-sharpening (on impact with a hard surface it
fractures in such a manner as to remain sharp) and pyrophoric (it
disintegrates to dust and catches fire when reaching air inside a
target). The central section of the bomb contains 200 kilos of
high-yield explosives, while the tail section consists of four guidance
fins and the rocket engine.

The "Underminer" must be deployed from a height of at least 35,000 feet
and with an approach angle of 70 degrees or more. During the first
flight stage, the bomb relies solely on gravity and the stabilizing fins
in order to achieve the optimum approach vector. At 10,000 feet, the
engine ignites in order to maximize impact velocity and penetration.

Our tests have shown that the "Underminer" is capable of penetrating up
170 meters of earth and 35 meters of reinforced concrete. It will also
penetrate the exterior shell of any Scout or Fighter class UFO and
completely annihilate every alien located inside. In most cases, the
bomb's explosion is enough to rupture the anti-matter fuel tanks inside
UFO, thereby adding the anti-matter's explosive power and completely
destroying the UFO. Against larger UFO's, however, results are
dissapointing due to their heavy armour: the "Underminer" will cause
some structural damage but most aliens will survive.

We should be extremely careful when utlizing the "Underminer". Whenever
a UFO crashes in uninhabited areas, local governments will have no
objections against us bombing the crash site. However, we must NEVER use
it near inhabited areas due to the near-certain probability of extensive
collateral damage. Also, politicians will not view our bombing of a
crash site half as favorably as they would view a successful recovery
mission.

If the aliens continue to escalate their operations on Earth, these
bombs will become necessary to weed-out as many targets as possible and
allow our forces to concentrate on the important ones. Our workshops are
ready to begin production as needed.

--Cdr. Navarre

## Links

# Research Tree Data

**(This information for reference only; do not translate or include
in-game.)**

*`Prerequisites:`*
` UFO -- Scout or UFO -- Fighter`

*`Opens:`*
` Enables production -- Underminer Bomb`

[Category:Proposals](Category:Proposals "wikilink")